docs/src/AlgebraicGeometry/Schemes/AffineSchemes.md, before:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["AffineSchemes.md"]
```


# Affine schemes

Let ``\mathbb k`` be a commutative noetherian base ring
(in practice: an algebraic extension of ``\mathbb Q`` or ``\mathbb F_p``).
We support functionality for affine schemes ``X = \mathrm{Spec}(R)`` over ``\mathbb k``.
Currently, we support rings ``R`` of type `MPolyRing`, `MPolyQuo`,
`MPolyLocalizedRing`, and `MPolyQuoLocalizedRing`
defined over the integers or algebraic field extensions of ``\mathbb Q``


## Constructors

### General constructors

Besides `Spec(R)` for `R` of either one of the types `MPolyRing`, `MPolyQuo`, `MPolyLocalizedRing`, or 
`MPolyQuoLocalizedRing`, we have the following constructors:
```@docs
Spec(R::MPolyRing, I::MPolyIdeal)
Spec(R::MPolyRing, U::AbsMPolyMultSet)
Spec(R::MPolyRing, I::MPolyIdeal, U::AbsMPolyMultSet)
```

### Copy constructors

```@docs
Spec(X::Spec)
```

### Affine n-space

```@docs
affine_space(kk::BRT, n::Int; variable_name="x") where {BRT<:Ring}
affine_space(kk::BRT, var_symbols::Vector{Symbol}) where {BRT<:Ring}
```

### Closed subschemes

```@docs
subscheme(X::AbsSpec, f::Vector{<:RingElem})
subscheme(X::AbsSpec, I::Ideal)
```

### Intersections

```@docs
Base.intersect(X::AbsSpec{BRT, <:Ring}, Y::AbsSpec{BRT, <:Ring}) where {BRT<:Ring}
```

### Open subschemes

```@docs
hypersurface_complement(X::AbsSpec, f::RingElem)
hypersurface_complement(X::AbsSpec, f::Vector{<:RingElem})
```

### Closure

```@docs
closure(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
```


## Attributes

### Ambient ring

For most affine schemes ``X = \mathrm{Spec}(R)``
over ``\mathbb k``, there is a 'governing' polynomial
``\mathbb k``-algebra ``P = \mathbb{k}[x_1,\dots,x_n]``
in the following sense:
```@docs
ambient_ring(X::AbsSpec)
```
For instance, this is the case whenever ``R`` is a quotient
ring of ``P``, a localization of ``P``, or a localization
of a quotient ring of ``P``; but also for
power series rings in multiple variables.

### Other attributes

```@docs
base_ring(X::AbsSpec)
codim(X::AbsSpec)
defining_ideal(X::AbsSpec{<:Any, <:MPolyRing})
dim(X::AbsSpec)
name(X::Spec)
OO(X::AbsSpec)
```

### Type getters

We support functions which return the types of
schemes, associated rings, and their elements. See the 
source code for details.


## Properties

```@docs
is_open_embedding(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
is_closed_embedding(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
isempty(X::AbsSpec)
issubset(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
```


## Methods

### Comparison

Two schemes $X$ and $Y$ can be compared based on their `ambient_ring`s: If 
`ambient_ring(X) = R = ambient_ring(Y)`, then both $X$ and $Y$ are considered 
as embedded into $\mathrm{Spec}(R)$. In particular they are considered equal (`==`)
if and only if the identity morphism of $\mathrm{Spec}(R)$ induces an isomorphism of ``X`` and ``Y``.
For ``X`` and ``Y`` with different `ambient_ring`s 
`X==Y` is always `false`.

### Auxiliary methods

```@docs
is_non_zero_divisor(f::RingElem, X::AbsSpec)
```

Commit message:

Introduce ambient_affine_space of an affine scheme (#1683)
* Introduce ambient_affine_space of an affine scheme

Co-authored-by: Simon Brandhorst <sbrandhorst@web.de>
Co-authored-by: anne <anne@krueger-berg.de>
Co-authored-by: Matthias Zach <zach@math.uni-hannover.de>

docs/src/AlgebraicGeometry/Schemes/AffineSchemes.md, after:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["AffineSchemes.md"]
```


# Affine schemes

Let ``\mathbb k`` be a commutative noetherian base ring
(in practice: an algebraic extension of ``\mathbb Q`` or ``\mathbb F_p``).
We support functionality for affine schemes ``X = \mathrm{Spec}(R)`` over ``\mathbb k``.
Currently, we support rings ``R`` of type `MPolyRing`, `MPolyQuo`,
`MPolyLocalizedRing`, and `MPolyQuoLocalizedRing`
defined over the integers, a finite field or algebraic field extensions of ``\mathbb Q``


## Constructors

### General constructors

Besides `Spec(R)` for `R` of either one of the types `MPolyRing`, `MPolyQuo`, `MPolyLocalizedRing`, or 
`MPolyQuoLocalizedRing`, we have the following constructors:
```@docs
Spec(R::MPolyRing, I::MPolyIdeal)
Spec(R::MPolyRing, U::AbsMPolyMultSet)
Spec(R::MPolyRing, I::MPolyIdeal, U::AbsMPolyMultSet)
```
See [`inclusion_morphism(::AbsSpec, ::AbsSpec)`](@ref) for a way to obtain the ideal ``I`` from ``X = \mathrm{Spec}(R, I)``.

### Affine n-space

```@docs
affine_space(kk::BRT, n::Int; variable_name="x") where {BRT<:Ring}
affine_space(kk::BRT, var_symbols::Vector{Symbol}) where {BRT<:Ring}
```

### Closed subschemes

```@docs
subscheme(X::AbsSpec, f::Vector{<:RingElem})
subscheme(X::AbsSpec, I::Ideal)
```

### Intersections

```@docs
Base.intersect(X::AbsSpec{BRT, <:Ring}, Y::AbsSpec{BRT, <:Ring}) where {BRT<:Ring}
```

### Open subschemes

```@docs
hypersurface_complement(X::AbsSpec, f::RingElem)
hypersurface_complement(X::AbsSpec, f::Vector{<:RingElem})
```

### Closure

```@docs
closure(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
```


## Attributes

### Ambient affine space

Most affine schemes in Oscar ``X = \mathrm{Spec}(R)``
over a ring ``B``, come with an embedding into an
affine space ``\mathbb{A}_B``.
More precisely, `ambient_affine_space(X)` is defined for `X = Spec(R)` if `R`
is constructed from a polynomial ring.
In particular ``\mathrm{Spec}(\mathbb{Z})`` or ``\mathrm{Spec}(\mathbb{k})`` for ``\mathbb k``
a field do not have an ambient affine space.

```@docs
ambient_affine_space(X::AbsSpec)
```

### Other attributes

```@docs
base_ring(X::AbsSpec)
codim(X::AbsSpec)
ambient_closure_ideal(X::AbsSpec{<:Any, <:MPolyRing})
ambient_embedding(X::AbsSpec)
dim(X::AbsSpec)
name(X::AbsSpec)
OO(X::AbsSpec)
```

### Type getters

We support functions which return the types of
schemes, associated rings, and their elements. See the 
source code for details.


## Properties

```@docs
is_open_embedding(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
is_closed_embedding(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
isempty(X::AbsSpec)
issubset(X::AbsSpec, Y::AbsSpec)
```


## Methods

### Comparison

Two schemes ``X`` and ``Y`` can be compared if their ambient affine spaces are equal.
In particular ``X`` and ``Y`` are considered equal (`==`)
if and only if the identity morphism of their ambient affine space induces an
isomorphism of ``X`` and ``Y``.
For ``X`` and ``Y`` with different ambient affine space `X==Y` is always `false`.

### Auxiliary methods

```@docs
is_non_zero_divisor(f::RingElem, X::AbsSpec)
```
