docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/ModulesOverMultivariateRings/free_modules.md, before:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
DocTestSetup = quote
  using Oscar
end
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["free_modules.md"]
```

# Free Modules

In what follows, the expression *free module*  refers to a free module of finite rank
over a multivariate polynomial ring. More concretely, given a multivariate polynomial ring $R$, 
the free $R$-modules considered are of type $R^p$, where we think of $R^p$ as a
free module with a given basis, namely the basis of standard unit vectors.
Accordingly, elements of free modules are represented by coordinate vectors,
and homomorphisms between free modules by matrices.

!!! note
    By convention, vectors are row vectors, and matrices operate by multiplication on the right.

## Types

All OSCAR types for finitely presented modules over multivariate polynomial rings belong to
the abstract type `ModuleFP{T}`, where `T` is the element type of the polynomial ring.
For free modules, OSCAR provides the abstract subtype `AbstractFreeMod{T} <: ModuleFP{T}`
and its concrete descendant `FreeMod{T <: RingElem}`.

!!! note
    Canonical maps such us the canonical projection onto a quotient module arise in many 
    constructions in commutative algebra. The `FreeMod` type is designed so that it allows
    for the caching of such maps when executing functions. The `direct_sum` function discussed
    in this section provides an example.

## Constructor

```@docs
free_module(R::MPolyRing, n::Int, name::String = "e"; cached::Bool = false)
```

## Data Associated to Free Modules

If `F` is a free `R`-module, then

- `base_ring(F)` refers to `R`,
- `basis(F)`, `gens(F)` to the basis vectors of `F`, 
- `rank(F)`, `ngens(F)`, `dim(F)` to the number of these vectors, and
- `F[i]`, `basis(F, i)`, `gen(F, i)` to the `i`-th such vector.

###### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"])
(Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field, fmpq_mpoly[x, y])

julia> F = free_module(R, 3)
Free module of rank 3 over Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field

julia> basis(F)
3-element Vector{FreeModElem{fmpq_mpoly}}:
 e[1]
 e[2]
 e[3]

julia> rank(F)
3

```

## Elements of Free Modules

All OSCAR types for elements of finitely presented modules over multivariate polynomial rings belong
to the abstract type `ModuleElemFP{T}`, where `T` is the element type of the polynomial ring.
For elements of free modules, there are the abstract subtype `AbstractFreeModElem{T} <: ModuleFPElem{T}` and its concrete
descendant `FreeModElem{T}` which implements an element $f$ of a free module $F$ as a sparse row,
that is, as an object of type `SRow{T}`. This object specifies the coordinates of $f$ with respect to
the basis of standard unit vectors of $F$. To create an element, enter its coordinates as a sparse row or a vector: 


```@julia
(F::FreeMod{T})(c::SRow{T}) where T
```

```@julia
(F::FreeMod{T})(c::Vector{T}) where T
```

Alternatively, directly write the element as a linear combination of basis vectors of $F$:
 
##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"])
(Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field, fmpq_mpoly[x, y])

julia> F = free_module(R, 3)
Free module of rank 3 over Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field

julia> f = F(sparse_row(R, [(1,x),(3,y)]))
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> g = F( [x, zero(R), y])
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> h = x*F[1] + y*F[3]
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> f == g == h
true

```

Given an element `f`  of a free module `F` over a multivariate polynomial ring with element type `T`,
- `parent(f)` refers to `F`, and
- `coordinates(f)` to the coordinate vector of `f`, returned as an object of type `SRow{T}`.

##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"])
(Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field, fmpq_mpoly[x, y])

julia> F = free_module(R, 3)
Free module of rank 3 over Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field

julia> f = x*F[1] + y*F[3]
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> parent(f)
Free module of rank 3 over Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field

julia> coordinates(f)
Sparse row with positions [1, 3] and values fmpq_mpoly[x, y]

```

The zero element of a free module is obtained as follows:

```@docs
zero(F::AbstractFreeMod)
```

Whether a given element of a free module is zero can be tested as follows:

```@docs
iszero(f::AbstractFreeModElem)
```

## Tests on Free Modules

```@docs
==(F::FreeMod, G::FreeMod)
```

```@docs
iszero(F::AbstractFreeMod)
```

## Homomorphisms from Free Modules

All OSCAR types for homomorphisms of finitely presented modules over multivariate polynomial rings belong
to the abstract type `ModuleFPHom{T1, T2}`, where `T1` and `T2` are the types of domain and codomain respectively.
A homomorphism $F\rightarrow M$ from a free module $F$ is determined by specifying the images
of the basis vectors of $F$ in $M$. For such homomorphisms, OSCAR provides the concrete type
`FreeModuleHom{T1, T2} <: ModuleFPHom{T1, T2}` as well as the following constructors:

```@docs
hom(F::FreeMod, M::ModuleFP{T}, V::Vector{<:ModuleFPElem{T}}) where T 
```

Given a homomorphism of type `FreeModuleHom`, a matrix `A` representing it
is recovered by the following function:

```@docs
matrix(a::FreeModuleHom)
```

The domain and codomain of a homomorphism `a`  of type `FreeModuleHom` can be
recovered by entering `domain(a)` and `codomain(a)`, respectively.

Commit message:

WIP Adding modules over quotient and local rings to Docu

docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/ModulesOverMultivariateRings/free_modules.md, after:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
DocTestSetup = quote
  using Oscar
end
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["free_modules.md"]
```

# Free Modules

In this section, the expression *free module*  refers to a free module of finite rank
over a ring of type `MPolyRing`, `MPolyQuo`, `MPolyLocalizedRing`, or `MPolyQuoLocalizedRing`.
More concretely, given a ring $R$ of one of these types, the free $R$-modules considered are of
type $R^p$, where we think of $R^p$ as a free module with a given basis, namely the basis of
standard unit vectors. Accordingly, elements of free modules are represented by coordinate vectors,
and homomorphisms between free modules by matrices.

!!! note
    By convention, vectors are row vectors, and matrices operate by multiplication on the right.

## Types

All OSCAR types for the finitely presented modules considered here belong to the
abstract type `ModuleFP{T}`, where `T` is the element type of the underlying ring.
The free modules belong to the abstract subtype `AbstractFreeMod{T} <: ModuleFP{T}`,
they are modelled as objects of the concrete type `FreeMod{T} <: AbstractFreeMod{T}`.

!!! note
    Canonical maps such us the canonical projection onto a quotient module arise in many 
    constructions in commutative algebra. The `FreeMod` type is designed so that it allows
    for the caching of such maps when executing functions. The `direct_sum` function discussed
    in this section provides an example.

## Constructor

```@docs
free_module(R::MPolyRing, n::Int, name::String = "e"; cached::Bool = false)
```

## Data Associated to Free Modules

If `F` is a free `R`-module, then

- `base_ring(F)` refers to `R`,
- `basis(F)`, `gens(F)` to the basis vectors of `F`, 
- `rank(F)`, `ngens(F)`, `dim(F)` to the number of these vectors, and
- `F[i]`, `basis(F, i)`, `gen(F, i)` to the `i`-th such vector.

###### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"]);

julia> F = free_module(R, 3);

julia> basis(F)
3-element Vector{FreeModElem{fmpq_mpoly}}:
 e[1]
 e[2]
 e[3]

julia> rank(F)
3
```

## Elements of Free Modules

All OSCAR types for elements of finitely presented modules considered in this chapter belong
to the abstract type `ModuleElemFP{T}`, where `T` is the element type of the polynomial ring.
For elements of free modules, there are the abstract subtype `AbstractFreeModElem{T} <: ModuleFPElem{T}` and its concrete
descendant `FreeModElem{T}` which implements an element $f$ of a free module $F$ as a sparse row,
that is, as an object of type `SRow{T}`. This object specifies the coordinates of $f$ with respect to
the basis of standard unit vectors of $F$. To create an element, enter its coordinates as a sparse row or a vector: 


```@julia
(F::FreeMod{T})(c::SRow{T}) where T
```

```@julia
(F::FreeMod{T})(c::Vector{T}) where T
```

Alternatively, directly write the element as a linear combination of basis vectors of $F$:
 
##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"]);

julia> F = free_module(R, 3);

julia> f = F(sparse_row(R, [(1,x),(3,y)]))
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> g = F([x, zero(R), y])
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> h = x*F[1] + y*F[3]
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> f == g == h
true

```

Given an element `f`  of a free module `F` over a multivariate polynomial ring with element type `T`,
- `parent(f)` refers to `F`, and
- `coordinates(f)` to the coordinate vector of `f`, returned as an object of type `SRow{T}`.

##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"]);

julia> F = free_module(R, 3);

julia> f = x*F[1] + y*F[3]
x*e[1] + y*e[3]

julia> parent(f)
Free module of rank 3 over Multivariate Polynomial Ring in x, y over Rational Field

julia> coordinates(f)
Sparse row with positions [1, 3] and values fmpq_mpoly[x, y]

```

The zero element of a free module is obtained as follows:

```@docs
zero(F::AbstractFreeMod)
```

Whether a given element of a free module is zero can be tested as follows:

```@docs
iszero(f::AbstractFreeModElem)
```

## Tests on Free Modules

```@docs
==(F::FreeMod, G::FreeMod)
```

```@docs
iszero(F::AbstractFreeMod)
```

## Homomorphisms from Free Modules

All OSCAR types for homomorphisms of finitely presented modules considered in this chapter belong
to the abstract type `ModuleFPHom{T1, T2}`, where `T1` and `T2` are the types of domain and codomain respectively.
A homomorphism $F\rightarrow M$ from a free module $F$ is determined by specifying the images
of the basis vectors of $F$ in $M$. For such homomorphisms, OSCAR provides the concrete type
`FreeModuleHom{T1, T2} <: ModuleFPHom{T1, T2}` as well as the following constructors:

```@docs
hom(F::FreeMod, M::ModuleFP{T}, V::Vector{<:ModuleFPElem{T}}) where T 
```

Given a homomorphism of type `FreeModuleHom`, a matrix `A` representing it
is recovered by the following function:

```@docs
matrix(a::FreeModuleHom)
```

The domain and codomain of a homomorphism `a`  of type `FreeModuleHom` can be
recovered by entering `domain(a)` and `codomain(a)`, respectively.
