docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/ModulesOverMultivariateRings/module_operations.md, before:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["module_operations.md"]
```

# Operations on Modules

## Subquotients Related to Homomorphisms

### Kernel

```@docs
kernel(a::ModuleMap)
```

### Image

```@docs
image(a::ModuleMap)
```

### Cokernel

```@docs
cokernel(a::ModuleMap)
```

## Chain Complexes

### Constructors

### Data Associated to Chain Complexes

### Operations on Chain Complexes

### Tests on Chain Complexes

### Maps of Chain Complexes

#### Types

#### Constructors

## Direct Sums and Products

```@docs
direct_sum(M::ModuleFP{T}...; task::Symbol = :sum) where T
```

```@docs
direct_product(M::ModuleFP{T}...; task::Symbol = :prod) where T
```

## Presentations

```@docs
presentation(M::ModuleFP)
```

## Syzygies and Free Resolutions

```@docs
free_resolution(M::SubQuo; ordering::ModuleOrdering = default_ordering(M),
    length::Int=0, algorithm::Symbol=:fres)
```

## Homology

```@docs
homology(C::ChainComplex{<:ModuleFP})
```

```@docs
homology(C::ChainComplex{<:ModuleFP}, i::Int)
```

## Hom and Ext

```@docs
hom(M::ModuleFP, N::ModuleFP, alg::Symbol=:maps)
```

```@docs
homomorphism(f::ModuleFPElem)
```

```@docs
module_elem(H::ModuleFP, phi::ModuleMap)
```

```@docs
ext(M::ModuleFP, N::ModuleFP, i::Int)
```

## Tensorproduct and Tor

```@docs
tensor_product(G::ModuleFP...; task::Symbol = :none)
```

```@docs
tor(M::ModuleFP, N::ModuleFP, i::Int)
```

Commit message:

Type correction, start docu on chain complexes

docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/ModulesOverMultivariateRings/module_operations.md, after:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["module_operations.md"]
```

# Operations on Modules

## Subquotients Related to Homomorphisms

### Kernel

```@docs
kernel(a::ModuleFPHom)
```

### Image

```@docs
image(a::ModuleFPHom)
```

### Cokernel

```@docs
cokernel(a::ModuleFPHom)
```

## Chain and Cochain Complexes

The general OSCAR type `ChainComplex{T}` allows one to model both chain complexes and cochain complexes.
In the context of commutative algebra, we handle complexes of modules over multivariate polynomial rings.
In this section, we first show how to create such complexes. Then we discuss functionality for dealing with the constructed
complexes, mainly focusing on chain complexes. Cochain complexes can be handled similarly.

### Constructors

```@docs
chain_complex(V::ModuleFPHom...; start::Int = 0)
```

```@docs
cochain_complex(V::ModuleFPHom...; start::Int = 0)
```

### Data Associated to Chain Complexes

### Operations on Chain Complexes

### Tests on Chain Complexes

### Maps of Chain Complexes

#### Types

#### Constructors

## Direct Sums and Products

```@docs
direct_sum(M::ModuleFP{T}...; task::Symbol = :sum) where T
```

```@docs
direct_product(M::ModuleFP{T}...; task::Symbol = :prod) where T
```

## Presentations

```@docs
presentation(M::ModuleFP)
```

## Syzygies and Free Resolutions

```@docs
free_resolution(M::SubQuo; ordering::ModuleOrdering = default_ordering(M),
    length::Int=0, algorithm::Symbol=:fres)
```

## Homology

```@docs
homology(C::ChainComplex{<:ModuleFP})
```

```@docs
homology(C::ChainComplex{<:ModuleFP}, i::Int)
```

## Hom and Ext

```@docs
hom(M::ModuleFP, N::ModuleFP, alg::Symbol=:maps)
```

```@docs
homomorphism(f::ModuleFPElem)
```

```@docs
module_elem(H::ModuleFP, phi::ModuleFPHom)
```

```@docs
ext(M::ModuleFP, N::ModuleFP, i::Int)
```

## Tensorproduct and Tor

```@docs
tensor_product(G::ModuleFP...; task::Symbol = :none)
```

```@docs
tor(M::ModuleFP, N::ModuleFP, i::Int)
```

```@repl oscar
R, (x,) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x"]);
F = free_module(R, 1);
A, _ = quo(F, [x^4*F[1]]);
B, _ = quo(F, [x^3*F[1]]);
a = hom(A, B, [x^2*B[1]]);
b = hom(B, B, [x^2*B[1]]);
D = chain_complex([a, b]; start =3)
```
