docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/ideals.md, before:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["ideals.md"]
```

# Ideals in Multivariate Rings

## Types

The OSCAR type for ideals in multivariate polynomial rings is of parametrized form
`MPolyIdeal{T}`, where `T` is the element type of the polynomial ring.

## Constructors

```@docs
ideal(g::Vector{T}) where {T <: MPolyElem}
```

## Gröbner Bases

Algorithmic means to deal with ideals in multivariate polynomial rings are provided by
the concept of Gröbner bases and the workhorse of this concept, Buchberger's algorithm for computing
Gröbner bases. For both the concept and the algorithm a convenient way of ordering the monomials
appearing in multivariate polynomials and, thus, to distinguish leading terms of such
polynomials is needed.

!!! note
    The performance of Buchberger's algorithm and the resulting Gröbner basis depend crucially on the choice of monomial ordering.


### Monomial Orderings

Given a ring $R$, we write $R[x]=R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]$ for the polynomial ring
over $R$ in the set of variables $x=\{x_1, \ldots, x_n\}$. Monomials in
$x=\{x_1, \ldots, x_n\}$ are written using multi--indices:
If $\alpha=(\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n)\in \N^n$, set
$x^\alpha=x_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots x_n^{\alpha_n}$ and 

$\text{Mon}_n(x) :=  \text{Mon}_n(x_1, \ldots, x_n) := \{x^\alpha \mid \alpha \in \N^n\}.$

A *monomial ordering* on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$  is a total  ordering $>$ on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$ such that

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \Longrightarrow x^\gamma x^\alpha > x^\gamma  x^\beta,
\; \text{ for all }\; \alpha, \beta, \gamma \in \mathbb N^n.$

A monomial ordering $>$ on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$ is called
- *global* if $x^\alpha > 1$ for all $\alpha \not = (0, \dots, 0)$,
- *local* if  $x^\alpha < 1$ for all $\alpha \not = (0, \dots, 0)$, and
- *mixed* if it is neither global nor local.

We then also say that $>$ is a *global* , *local*, or *mixed* *monomial ordering* on $R[x]$.

Some monomial orderings are predefined in OSCAR.

#### Predefined Global Orderings

##### The Lexicographical Ordering

The *lexicographical ordering* `lex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$

##### The Degree Lexicographical Ordering

The *degree lexicographical ordering* `deglex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \deg(x^\alpha) > \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$

##### The Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *reverse lexicographical ordering* `revlex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i  > \beta_i.$


##### The Degree Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *degree reverse lexicographical ordering* `degrevlex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \deg(x^\alpha) > \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$


##### Weighted Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *weighted lexicographical ordering* `wdeglex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) > \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$


##### Weighted Reverse Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *weighted reverse lexicographical ordering* `wdegrevlex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) > \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$

#### Predefined Local Orderings

##### The Negative Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative lexicographical ordering* `neglex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$

##### The Negative Degree Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative degree lexicographical ordering* `negdeglex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \deg(x^\alpha) < \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$

##### The Negative Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative reverse lexicographical ordering* `negrevlex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i  < \beta_i.$


##### The Negative Degree Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative degree reverse lexicographical ordering* `negdegrevlex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \deg(x^\alpha) < \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$



##### Negative Weighted Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *negative weighted lexicographical ordering* `negwdeglex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) < \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$


##### Negative Weighted Reverse Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *negative weighted reverse lexicographical ordering* `negwdegrevlex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) < \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$


#### Creating Block Orderings

The concept of block orderings allows one to construct new monomial orderings from already given ones: If $>_1$ and $>_2$ are monomial orderings on $\text{Mon}_s(x_1, \ldots, x_s)$ and $\text{Mon}_{n-s}(x_{s+1}, \ldots, x_n)$, respectively, then the *block ordering*
$>=(>_1, >_2)$ on $\text{Mon}_n(x)=\text{Mon}_n(x_1, \ldots, x_n)$ is defined by setting
          
$x^\alpha>x^\beta  \;\Leftrightarrow\;  x_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots x_s^{\alpha_s} >_1 x_1^{\beta_1}\cdots x_s^{\beta_s} \;\text{ or }\;
\bigl(x_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots x_s^{\alpha_s} = x_1^{\beta_1}\cdots x_s^{\beta_s} \text{ and }  x_{s+1}^{\alpha_{s+1}}\cdots x_n^{\alpha_n} >_2
x_{s+1}^{\beta_{s+1}}\cdots x_n^{\beta_n}\bigr).$
          
Note that $>=(>_1, >_2)$ is global (local) iff both $>_1$ and $>_2$ are global (local). Mixed orderings arise by choosing
one of $>_1$ and $>_2$ global and the other one local.
		  
#### Creating Matrix Orderings

Given a matrix $M\in \text{GL}(n,\mathbb R)$, with rows $m_1,\dots,m_n$, the *matrix ordering*
defined by $M$ is obtained by setting
         
$x^\alpha>_M x^\beta  \Leftrightarrow  \;\exists\; 1\leq i\leq n:  m_1\alpha=m_1\beta,\ldots, 
m_{i-1}\alpha\ =m_{i-1}\beta,\ m_i\alpha>m_i\beta$

(here, $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are regarded as column vectors).

!!! note
    By a theorem of Robbiano, every monomial ordering arises as a matrix ordering as above.
    

To create matrix orderings, OSCAR allows for matrices with integer coefficients as input matrices.

#### Functions for creating orderings

When computing Gröbner bases an ordering must be supplied. Standard Singular
orderings, including block orderings, weighted orderings and local orderings
are available.

The basic orderings are `:lex`, `:revlex`, `:deglex`, `:degrevlex`,
`:neglex`, `:negrevlex`, `:negdeglex`, `:negdegrevlex`, `:wdeglex`,
`:wdegrevlex`, `:negwdeglex` and `:negwdegrevlex`.

The orderings starting with `w` are weighted orderings.

The following functions exist for creating orderings:

```@docs
lex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
revlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
deglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
degrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
neglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
negrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
negdeglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
negdegrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
```

```@docs
wdeglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
wdegrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
negwdeglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
negwdegrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
matrix_ordering(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::fmpz_mat)
weighted_ordering(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
```

Block orderings can be obtained by concatening monomial orderings using the `*`
operator.

Term over position and position over term module orderings are also available.
These are also specified byy concatenation using the `*` operator. One creates
the requisite module ordering (`lex` or `revlex`) for the generators of the
free module.

Term over position is specified by appending the module ordering to the
monomial ordering and position over term by prepending the module ordering.

###### Examples

```@repl oscar
R, (x, y, s, t, u) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y", "s", "t", "u"])
O1 = degrevlex(gens(R))
O2 = lex([x, y])*deglex([s, t, u])
O3 = wdeglex(gens(R), [2, 3, 5, 7, 3])

K = FreeModule(R, 3)
O4 = revlex(gens(K))*degrevlex(gens(R))
```

## Normal Forms

```@docs
normal_form(f::T, J::MPolyIdeal) where { T <: MPolyElem }
normal_form(A::Vector{T}, J::MPolyIdeal) where { T <: MPolyElem }
```

### Computing Gröbner Bases

```@docs
groebner_basis(I::MPolyIdeal; ordering::Symbol = :degrevlex, complete_reduction::Bool = false)
```

#### Gröbner Bases with transformation matrix

```@docs
groebner_basis_with_transformation_matrix(I::MPolyIdeal; ordering::Symbol = :degrevlex, complete_reduction::Bool=false)
```

    fglm

    Gröbner walks

    Hilbert-driven

!!! warning "Expert functions for Gröbner bases"
    The following functions are low-level implementations of various Gröbner
    basis algorithms with many adjustable arguments. Only use these
    functions directly if you know what you are doing.

```@docs
f4( I::MPolyIdeal; initial_hts::Int=17, nr_thrds::Int=1, max_nr_pairs::Int=0, la_option::Int=2, reduce_gb::Int=1, info_level::Int=0)
```


#### Leading Ideals

```@docs
leading_ideal(g::Vector{T}; ordering::MonomialOrdering) where { T <: MPolyElem }
leading_ideal(I::MPolyIdeal; ordering::MonomialOrdering)
```

#### Gröbner Bases over the integers

Over the integers the coefficients of the polynomials 
are not invertible, thus their handling when computing
Gröbner bases and normal forms plays an important role. This is done when 
computing strong Gröbner bases which ensure the following property: 
For any element of an ideal its leading term is divisible by a leading term of an 
element of a corresponding strong Gröbner basis.

The textbook [AL94](@cite) provides details on theory and algorithms as well as references.

```@repl oscar
R, (x,y) = PolynomialRing(ZZ, ["x","y"])
I = ideal(R, [2x,3x,4y])
H = groebner_basis(I)
```
### Syzygies

#### Generators of syzygies

```@docs
syzygy_generators(a::Vector{<:MPolyElem})
```

## Data Associated to Ideals

### Basic Data

If `I` is an ideal of a multivariate polynomial ring  `R`, then

- `base_ring(I)` refers to `I`,
- `gens(I)` to the generators of `I`,
- `ngens(I)` to the number of these generators, and
- `gen(I, k)` as well as `I[k]` to the `k`-th such generator.

###### Examples

```@repl oscar
R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"])
I = ideal(R, [x, y])^2
base_ring(I)
gens(I)
ngens(I)
gen(I, 2)
x*y
```

### Dimension

```@docs
dim(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Codimension

```@docs
codim(I::MPolyIdeal)
```
### Minimal Sets of Generators

In the graded case, we have:

```@docs
minimal_generating_set(I::MPolyIdeal{<:MPolyElem_dec})
```
    
## Operations on Ideals

### Simple Ideal Operations

#### Powers of Ideal

```@docs
:^(I::MPolyIdeal, m::Int)
```
#### Sum of Ideals

```@docs
:+(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

#### Product of Ideals

```@docs
:*(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Intersection of Ideals

```@docs
intersect(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, Js::MPolyIdeal{T}...) where T
```

### Ideal Quotients

Given two ideals $I, J$ of a ring $R$, the ideal quotient of $I$ by $J$ is the ideal

$I:J= \bigl\{f \in R\:\big|\: f J \subset I\bigr\}\subset R.$

```@docs
quotient(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Saturation

Given two ideals $I, J$ of a ring $R$, the saturation of $I$ with respect to $J$ is the ideal

$I:J^{\infty} = \bigl\{ f \in R \:\big|\: f J^k \!\subset I {\text{ for some }}k\geq 1 \bigr\} = \textstyle{\bigcup\limits_{k=1}^{\infty} (I:J^k)}.$

```@docs
saturation(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
saturation_with_index(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Elimination

```@docs
eliminate(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, l::Vector{T}) where T <: MPolyElem
```

## Tests on Ideals

### Basic Tests

```@docs
iszero(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

```@docs
isone(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

```@docs
is_monomial(f::MPolyElem)
```

### Containment of Ideals

```@docs
issubset(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Equality of Ideals

```@docs
==(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Ideal Membership

```@docs
ideal_membership(f::T, I::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Radical Membership

```@docs
radical_membership(f::T, I::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Primality Test

```@docs
is_prime(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Primary Test

```@docs
is_primary(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

## Decomposition of Ideals

We discuss various decomposition techniques. They are implemented for
polynomial rings over fields and, if explicitly mentioned, also for
polynomial rings over the integers. See [DGP99](@cite) for a survey.

### Radical

```@docs
radical(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Primary Decomposition

```@docs
primary_decomposition(I::MPolyIdeal; alg = :GTZ)
```

### Absolute Primary Decomposition

```@docs
absolute_primary_decomposition(I::MPolyIdeal{fmpq_mpoly})
```

### Minimal Associated Primes

```@docs
minimal_primes(I::MPolyIdeal; alg = :GTZ)
```

### Weak Equidimensional Decomposition

```@docs
equidimensional_decomposition_weak(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Equidimensional Decomposition of radical

```@docs
equidimensional_decomposition_radical(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Equidimensional Hull

```@docs
equidimensional_hull(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Radical of the Equidimensional Hull

```@docs
equidimensional_hull_radical(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

## Homogenization and Dehomogenization

Referring to [KR05](@cite) for definitions and technical details, we discuss homogenization and dehomogenization in the context of $\mathbb Z^m$-gradings. 

```@docs
homogenization(f::MPolyElem, W::Union{fmpz_mat, Matrix{<:IntegerUnion}}, var::String, pos::Int = 1)
```

```@docs
homogenization(f::MPolyElem, var::String, pos::Int=1)
```

```@docs
dehomogenization(F::MPolyElem_dec, pos::Int)
```


## Generating Special Ideals

```@docs
katsura(n::Int)
```

```@docs
katsura(R::MPolyRing)
```

Commit message:

Introduce standard bases for ideals (for non-global orderings). (#1416)

docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/ideals.md, after:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["ideals.md"]
```

# Ideals in Multivariate Rings

## Types

The OSCAR type for ideals in multivariate polynomial rings is of parametrized form
`MPolyIdeal{T}`, where `T` is the element type of the polynomial ring.

## Constructors

```@docs
ideal(g::Vector{T}) where {T <: MPolyElem}
```

## Gröbner Bases

Algorithmic means to deal with ideals in multivariate polynomial rings are provided by
the concept of Gröbner bases and the workhorse of this concept, Buchberger's algorithm for computing
Gröbner bases. For both the concept and the algorithm a convenient way of ordering the monomials
appearing in multivariate polynomials and, thus, to distinguish leading terms of such
polynomials is needed.

!!! note
    The performance of Buchberger's algorithm and the resulting Gröbner basis depend crucially on the choice of monomial ordering.


### Monomial Orderings

Given a ring $R$, we write $R[x]=R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]$ for the polynomial ring
over $R$ in the set of variables $x=\{x_1, \ldots, x_n\}$. Monomials in
$x=\{x_1, \ldots, x_n\}$ are written using multi--indices:
If $\alpha=(\alpha_1, \ldots, \alpha_n)\in \N^n$, set
$x^\alpha=x_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots x_n^{\alpha_n}$ and 

$\text{Mon}_n(x) :=  \text{Mon}_n(x_1, \ldots, x_n) := \{x^\alpha \mid \alpha \in \N^n\}.$

A *monomial ordering* on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$  is a total  ordering $>$ on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$ such that

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \Longrightarrow x^\gamma x^\alpha > x^\gamma  x^\beta,
\; \text{ for all }\; \alpha, \beta, \gamma \in \mathbb N^n.$

A monomial ordering $>$ on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$ is called
- *global* if $x^\alpha > 1$ for all $\alpha \not = (0, \dots, 0)$,
- *local* if  $x^\alpha < 1$ for all $\alpha \not = (0, \dots, 0)$, and
- *mixed* if it is neither global nor local.

We then also say that $>$ is a *global* , *local*, or *mixed* *monomial ordering* on $R[x]$.

Some monomial orderings are predefined in OSCAR.

#### Predefined Global Orderings

##### The Lexicographical Ordering

The *lexicographical ordering* `lex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$

##### The Degree Lexicographical Ordering

The *degree lexicographical ordering* `deglex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \deg(x^\alpha) > \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$

##### The Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *reverse lexicographical ordering* `revlex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i  > \beta_i.$


##### The Degree Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *degree reverse lexicographical ordering* `degrevlex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \deg(x^\alpha) > \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$


##### Weighted Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *weighted lexicographical ordering* `wdeglex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) > \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$


##### Weighted Reverse Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *weighted reverse lexicographical ordering* `wdegrevlex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) > \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$

#### Predefined Local Orderings

##### The Negative Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative lexicographical ordering* `neglex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$

##### The Negative Degree Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative degree lexicographical ordering* `negdeglex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \deg(x^\alpha) < \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$

##### The Negative Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative reverse lexicographical ordering* `negrevlex` is defined by setting

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i  < \beta_i.$


##### The Negative Degree Reverse Lexicographical Ordering

The *negative degree reverse lexicographical ordering* `negdegrevlex` is defined by setting $\;\deg(x^\alpha) = \alpha_1 + \cdots + \alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \deg(x^\alpha) < \deg(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$



##### Negative Weighted Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *negative weighted lexicographical ordering* `negwdeglex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \;  \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) < \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\; \exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_1 = \beta_1, \dots, \alpha_{i-1} = \beta_{i-1}, \alpha_i > \beta_i.$


##### Negative Weighted Reverse Lexicographical Orderings

If `W` is a vector of positive integers  $w_1, \dots, w_n$, the *negative weighted reverse lexicographical ordering* `negwdegrevlex(W)`  is defined by setting
$\;\text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) = w_1\alpha_1 + \cdots + w_n\alpha_n\;$ and

$x^\alpha > x^\beta \;  \Leftrightarrow \; \text{wdeg}(x^\alpha) < \text{wdeg}(x^\beta)  \;\text{ or }\;\exists \; 1 \leq i \leq n: \alpha_n = \beta_n, \dots, \alpha_{i+1} = \beta_{i+1}, \alpha_i < \beta_i.$


#### Creating Block Orderings

The concept of block orderings allows one to construct new monomial orderings from already given ones: If $>_1$ and $>_2$ are monomial orderings on $\text{Mon}_s(x_1, \ldots, x_s)$ and $\text{Mon}_{n-s}(x_{s+1}, \ldots, x_n)$, respectively, then the *block ordering*
$>=(>_1, >_2)$ on $\text{Mon}_n(x)=\text{Mon}_n(x_1, \ldots, x_n)$ is defined by setting
          
$x^\alpha>x^\beta  \;\Leftrightarrow\;  x_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots x_s^{\alpha_s} >_1 x_1^{\beta_1}\cdots x_s^{\beta_s} \;\text{ or }\;
\bigl(x_1^{\alpha_1}\cdots x_s^{\alpha_s} = x_1^{\beta_1}\cdots x_s^{\beta_s} \text{ and }  x_{s+1}^{\alpha_{s+1}}\cdots x_n^{\alpha_n} >_2
x_{s+1}^{\beta_{s+1}}\cdots x_n^{\beta_n}\bigr).$
          
Note that $>=(>_1, >_2)$ is global (local) iff both $>_1$ and $>_2$ are global (local). Mixed orderings arise by choosing
one of $>_1$ and $>_2$ global and the other one local.
		  
#### Creating Matrix Orderings

Given a matrix $M\in \text{GL}(n,\mathbb R)$, with rows $m_1,\dots,m_n$, the *matrix ordering*
defined by $M$ is obtained by setting
         
$x^\alpha>_M x^\beta  \Leftrightarrow  \;\exists\; 1\leq i\leq n:  m_1\alpha=m_1\beta,\ldots, 
m_{i-1}\alpha\ =m_{i-1}\beta,\ m_i\alpha>m_i\beta$

(here, $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are regarded as column vectors).

!!! note
    By a theorem of Robbiano, every monomial ordering arises as a matrix ordering as above.
    

To create matrix orderings, OSCAR allows for matrices with integer coefficients as input matrices.

#### Functions for creating orderings

When computing Gröbner bases an ordering must be supplied. Standard Singular
orderings, including block orderings, weighted orderings and local orderings
are available.

The basic orderings are `:lex`, `:revlex`, `:deglex`, `:degrevlex`,
`:neglex`, `:negrevlex`, `:negdeglex`, `:negdegrevlex`, `:wdeglex`,
`:wdegrevlex`, `:negwdeglex` and `:negwdegrevlex`.

The orderings starting with `w` are weighted orderings.

The following functions exist for creating orderings:

```@docs
lex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
revlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
deglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
degrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
neglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
negrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
negdeglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
negdegrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem})
```

```@docs
wdeglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
wdegrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
negwdeglex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
negwdegrevlex(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
matrix_ordering(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::fmpz_mat)
weighted_ordering(::AbstractVector{<:MPolyElem}, ::Vector{Int})
```

Block orderings can be obtained by concatening monomial orderings using the `*`
operator.

Term over position and position over term module orderings are also available.
These are also specified byy concatenation using the `*` operator. One creates
the requisite module ordering (`lex` or `revlex`) for the generators of the
free module.

Term over position is specified by appending the module ordering to the
monomial ordering and position over term by prepending the module ordering.

###### Examples

```@repl oscar
R, (x, y, s, t, u) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y", "s", "t", "u"])
O1 = degrevlex(gens(R))
O2 = lex([x, y])*deglex([s, t, u])
O3 = wdeglex(gens(R), [2, 3, 5, 7, 3])

K = FreeModule(R, 3)
O4 = revlex(gens(K))*degrevlex(gens(R))
```

## Normal Forms

```@docs
normal_form(f::T, J::MPolyIdeal) where { T <: MPolyElem }
normal_form(A::Vector{T}, J::MPolyIdeal) where { T <: MPolyElem }
```

### Computing Gröbner Bases

```@docs
groebner_basis(I::MPolyIdeal; ordering::Symbol = :degrevlex, complete_reduction::Bool = false)
```
```@docs
std_basis(I::MPolyIdeal, o::MonomialOrdering)
```
See e.g. [GreuelPfister07](@cite) for the theoretical background on Groebner- and standard bases.

#### Gröbner Bases with transformation matrix

```@docs
groebner_basis_with_transformation_matrix(I::MPolyIdeal; ordering::Symbol = :degrevlex, complete_reduction::Bool=false)
```

    fglm

    Gröbner walks

    Hilbert-driven

!!! warning "Expert functions for Gröbner bases"
    The following functions are low-level implementations of various Gröbner
    basis algorithms with many adjustable arguments. Only use these
    functions directly if you know what you are doing.

```@docs
f4( I::MPolyIdeal; initial_hts::Int=17, nr_thrds::Int=1, max_nr_pairs::Int=0, la_option::Int=2, reduce_gb::Int=1, info_level::Int=0)
```


#### Leading Ideals

```@docs
leading_ideal(g::Vector{T}; ordering::MonomialOrdering) where { T <: MPolyElem }
leading_ideal(I::MPolyIdeal; ordering::MonomialOrdering)
```

#### Gröbner Bases over the integers

Over the integers the coefficients of the polynomials 
are not invertible, thus their handling when computing
Gröbner bases and normal forms plays an important role. This is done when 
computing strong Gröbner bases which ensure the following property: 
For any element of an ideal its leading term is divisible by a leading term of an 
element of a corresponding strong Gröbner basis.

The textbook [AL94](@cite) provides details on theory and algorithms as well as references.

```@repl oscar
R, (x,y) = PolynomialRing(ZZ, ["x","y"])
I = ideal(R, [2x,3x,4y])
H = groebner_basis(I)
```
### Syzygies

#### Generators of syzygies

```@docs
syzygy_generators(a::Vector{<:MPolyElem})
```

## Data Associated to Ideals

### Basic Data

If `I` is an ideal of a multivariate polynomial ring  `R`, then

- `base_ring(I)` refers to `I`,
- `gens(I)` to the generators of `I`,
- `ngens(I)` to the number of these generators, and
- `gen(I, k)` as well as `I[k]` to the `k`-th such generator.

###### Examples

```@repl oscar
R, (x, y) = PolynomialRing(QQ, ["x", "y"])
I = ideal(R, [x, y])^2
base_ring(I)
gens(I)
ngens(I)
gen(I, 2)
x*y
```

### Dimension

```@docs
dim(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Codimension

```@docs
codim(I::MPolyIdeal)
```
### Minimal Sets of Generators

In the graded case, we have:

```@docs
minimal_generating_set(I::MPolyIdeal{<:MPolyElem_dec})
```
    
## Operations on Ideals

### Simple Ideal Operations

#### Powers of Ideal

```@docs
:^(I::MPolyIdeal, m::Int)
```
#### Sum of Ideals

```@docs
:+(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

#### Product of Ideals

```@docs
:*(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Intersection of Ideals

```@docs
intersect(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, Js::MPolyIdeal{T}...) where T
```

### Ideal Quotients

Given two ideals $I, J$ of a ring $R$, the ideal quotient of $I$ by $J$ is the ideal

$I:J= \bigl\{f \in R\:\big|\: f J \subset I\bigr\}\subset R.$

```@docs
quotient(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Saturation

Given two ideals $I, J$ of a ring $R$, the saturation of $I$ with respect to $J$ is the ideal

$I:J^{\infty} = \bigl\{ f \in R \:\big|\: f J^k \!\subset I {\text{ for some }}k\geq 1 \bigr\} = \textstyle{\bigcup\limits_{k=1}^{\infty} (I:J^k)}.$

```@docs
saturation(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
saturation_with_index(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Elimination

```@docs
eliminate(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, l::Vector{T}) where T <: MPolyElem
```

## Tests on Ideals

### Basic Tests

```@docs
iszero(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

```@docs
isone(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

```@docs
is_monomial(f::MPolyElem)
```

### Containment of Ideals

```@docs
issubset(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Equality of Ideals

```@docs
==(I::MPolyIdeal{T}, J::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Ideal Membership

```@docs
ideal_membership(f::T, I::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Radical Membership

```@docs
radical_membership(f::T, I::MPolyIdeal{T}) where T
```

### Primality Test

```@docs
is_prime(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Primary Test

```@docs
is_primary(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

## Decomposition of Ideals

We discuss various decomposition techniques. They are implemented for
polynomial rings over fields and, if explicitly mentioned, also for
polynomial rings over the integers. See [DGP99](@cite) for a survey.

### Radical

```@docs
radical(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Primary Decomposition

```@docs
primary_decomposition(I::MPolyIdeal; alg = :GTZ)
```

### Absolute Primary Decomposition

```@docs
absolute_primary_decomposition(I::MPolyIdeal{fmpq_mpoly})
```

### Minimal Associated Primes

```@docs
minimal_primes(I::MPolyIdeal; alg = :GTZ)
```

### Weak Equidimensional Decomposition

```@docs
equidimensional_decomposition_weak(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Equidimensional Decomposition of radical

```@docs
equidimensional_decomposition_radical(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Equidimensional Hull

```@docs
equidimensional_hull(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

### Radical of the Equidimensional Hull

```@docs
equidimensional_hull_radical(I::MPolyIdeal)
```

## Homogenization and Dehomogenization

Referring to [KR05](@cite) for definitions and technical details, we discuss homogenization and dehomogenization in the context of $\mathbb Z^m$-gradings. 

```@docs
homogenization(f::MPolyElem, W::Union{fmpz_mat, Matrix{<:IntegerUnion}}, var::String, pos::Int = 1)
```

```@docs
homogenization(f::MPolyElem, var::String, pos::Int=1)
```

```@docs
dehomogenization(F::MPolyElem_dec, pos::Int)
```


## Generating Special Ideals

```@docs
katsura(n::Int)
```

```@docs
katsura(R::MPolyRing)
```
