docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/module_localizations.md, before:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["module_localizations.md"]
```

# Localizations of modules over computable rings

For localizations of modules, there exists a generic implementation of 
the common methods such as membership tests, kernel computations, etc. 
based on the work of Barakat, Posur, et. al; see [Pos18](@cite).

Let $R$ be a ring of type `<:Ring`, $U \subset R$ a multiplicative set of type `<:AbsMultSet` 
and $S = R[U^{-1}]$ the localization of $R$ at $U$. Recall that $R$ 
is *computable* if one can compute *syzygies* and *lifts* over $R$. 
The results from [Pos18](@cite), Theorem 3.9, assert that then also the localization $S$ is 
computable, provided that there exists a solution to the *localization problem* 
(Definition 3.8, [Pos18](@cite) and below). 

The user who wishes to use the generic code for 
localizations therefore has to make sure the following two 
requirements are met: 

 1) The code for finitely generated modules and ideals must be functional over ``R``, including the computation of `coordinates` and `kernel`. 

 2) The user has to solve the *localization problem* by implementing `has_nonepmty_intersection(U::MultSetType, I::IdealType)` for the type `MultSetType` of multiplicative sets and the type `IdealType` of ideals in `R` that they would like to consider.
```@docs
    has_nonepmty_intersection(U::AbsMultSet, I::Ideal)
```
**Note:** In order to clear denominators of row vectors, the generic code uses the method `lcm(v::Vector{T})` where `T = elem_type(R)`. 
If no such method already exists, this has to also be provided; in the worst case by simply returning the product of the denominators. 

As soon as the above requirements are met, the methods 
```@julia
   represents_element(u::FreeModElem{T}, M::SubQuo{T}) where {T<:AbsLocalizedRingElem}
   coordinates(u::FreeModElem{T}, M::SubQuo{T}) where {T<:AbsLocalizedRingElem}
   kernel(f::FreeModuleHom{DomType, CodType, Nothing}) where {T, DomType<:FreeMod{T}, CodType<:SubQuo{T}}
   kernel(f::SubQuoHom{DomType, CodType, Nothing}) where {T, DomType<:FreeMod{T}, CodType<:SubQuo{T}}
   iszero(a::SubQuoElem{T}) where {T<:AbsLocalizedRingElem}
```
will be available for modules over $S$, i.e. for `T = elem_type(S)`. 
As can easily be seen, having the first three of these methods
is already equivalent to $S = R[U^{-1}]$ being computable; hence all higher methods can be derived 
from these basic ones. 
    
A sample implementation for various localizations of multivariate polynomial rings 
can be found in `src/Modules/mpoly-localizations.jl`. A modified version for localizations 
of affine algebras which also overwrites some of the generic methods is in 
`src/Modules/mpolyquo-localizations.jl`

Commit message:

Add explanation of the internal caching.

docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/module_localizations.md, after:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["module_localizations.md"]
```

# Localizations of modules over computable rings

For localizations of modules, there exists a generic implementation of 
the common methods such as membership tests, kernel computations, etc. 
based on the work of Barakat, Posur, et. al; see [Pos18](@cite).

Let $R$ be a ring of type `<:Ring`, $U \subset R$ a multiplicative set of type `<:AbsMultSet` 
and $S = R[U^{-1}]$ the localization of $R$ at $U$. Recall that $R$ 
is *computable* if one can compute *syzygies* and *lifts* over $R$. 
The results from [Pos18](@cite), Theorem 3.9, assert that then also the localization $S$ is 
computable, provided that there exists a solution to the *localization problem* 
(Definition 3.8, [Pos18](@cite) and below). 

The user who wishes to use the generic code for 
localizations therefore has to make sure the following two 
requirements are met: 

 1) The code for finitely generated modules and ideals must be functional over ``R``, including the computation of `coordinates` and `kernel`. 

 2) The user has to solve the *localization problem* by implementing `has_nonepmty_intersection(U::MultSetType, I::IdealType)` for the type `MultSetType` of multiplicative sets and the type `IdealType` of ideals in `R` that they would like to consider.
```@docs
    has_nonepmty_intersection(U::AbsMultSet, I::Ideal)
```
**Note:** In order to clear denominators of row vectors, the generic code uses the method `lcm(v::Vector{T})` where `T = elem_type(R)`. 
If no such method already exists, this has to also be provided; in the worst case by simply returning the product of the denominators. 

As soon as the above requirements are met, the methods 
```@julia
   represents_element(u::FreeModElem{T}, M::SubQuo{T}) where {T<:AbsLocalizedRingElem}
   coordinates(u::FreeModElem{T}, M::SubQuo{T}) where {T<:AbsLocalizedRingElem}
   kernel(f::FreeModuleHom{DomType, CodType, Nothing}) where {T, DomType<:FreeMod{T}, CodType<:SubQuo{T}}
   kernel(f::SubQuoHom{DomType, CodType, Nothing}) where {T, DomType<:FreeMod{T}, CodType<:SubQuo{T}}
   iszero(a::SubQuoElem{T}) where {T<:AbsLocalizedRingElem}
```
will be available for modules over $S$, i.e. for `T = elem_type(S)`. 
As can easily be seen, having the first three of these methods
is already equivalent to $S = R[U^{-1}]$ being computable; hence all higher methods can be derived 
from these basic ones. 

The generic code makes use of a simple caching mechanism for the `SubQuo`s as follows. 
For a module ``M = (G + N)/N`` with submodules ``G, N \subset R^n`` of some free module, 
the localization ``M[U^{-1}]`` over ``S = R[U^{-1}]`` has an associated *saturated module* over ``R``:
```math
   M' = (G' + N')/N', \quad
   G' = \{ a \in R^n | \exists u \in U : u \cdot a \in G + N\},\quad
   N' = \{ b \in R^n | \exists u \in U : u \cdot b \in N\}.
```
While it might be difficult to compute such saturations, we have a generic algorithm to check 
membership for elements in ``M'`` (via `represents_element` for ``M[U^{-1}]``). 
It is assumed that such membership tests are cheaper for modules over ``R`` compared to 
modules over ``S``. For instance in the case where ``R`` is a multivariate polynomial ring, 
once a (relative) groebner basis has been computed for ``M``, membership test for ``M`` 
is merely a reduction while for the localization ``M[U^{-1}]`` it triggers 
another groebner basis computation a priori. 

But for every element ``a \in R^n`` that has 
already been shown to represent an element in the saturation ``M'``, we can cache 
the results of the computation in an intermediate *pre-saturated module* 
``M \subset \tilde M \subset M'`` by adding the necessary generators to ``G`` and ``N`` 
for a representation of ``a``. Then, checking membership for ``a`` a second time will 
fall back to a membership test in ``\tilde M``. For the latter, we assume some caching 
to already be implemented as, for instance, for the use of groebner bases in the polynomial 
case.

    
A sample implementation for various localizations of multivariate polynomial rings 
can be found in `src/Modules/mpoly-localizations.jl`. A modified version for localizations 
of affine algebras which also overwrites some of the generic methods, is in 
`src/Modules/mpolyquo-localizations.jl`.
