```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["pg_cones.md"]
```

# Cones


## Introduction

Let $\mathbb{F}$ be an ordered field; the default is that
$\mathbb{F}=\mathbb{Q}$ is the field of rational numbers and other fields are
not yet supported everywhere in the implementation.

A set $C \subseteq \mathbb{F}^n$ is called a *(polyhedral) cone* if it can be
written as the set of nonnegative linear combinations of finitely many vectors
in $\mathbb{F}^n$.  Equivalently, cones can be written as the intersection of
finitely many homogeneous linear inequalities.

Any cone is a special case of a polyhedron.  Conversely, intersecting a cone
with a suitable affine hyperplane yields a polyhedron whose faces are in
bijection with the faces of the cone.  Going back and forth between polyhedra
and their homogenizations, the cones, is a frequent operation.  This is one
reason for keeping cones as a distinct type.

## Construction

One can construct a cone through an interior description, analogous  to the
$V$-representation of a polytope. By providing a collection of vectors, the
command `positive_hull` will construct the cone generated by those vectors.

```@docs
positive_hull(::Union{Oscar.MatElem, AbstractMatrix})
```

## Saving and loading

Objects of type `Cone` can be saved to a file and loaded from a file in the
following way:
```@repl oscar
C = positive_hull([1 0; 0 1])
save_cone(C, "C.cone")
CC = load_cone("C.cone")
collect(rays(CC))
```
The file is in JSON format and contains all the underlying polymake object. In
particular, this file can now be read by both polymake and Oscar.
