docs/src/General/other.md, before:

# Notes for users of other computer algebra systems

## General differences

- TODO: ``2^{100}`` is evaluated to 0; write ``fmpz(2)^100`` to get
  a long

## Notes for GAP users

- TODO
- TODO: also talk about how to use it from OSCAR?

## Notes for Singular users

- TODO
- TODO: also talk about how to use it from OSCAR?

## Notes for Polymake users

- OSCAR (and Julia) is `1`-based, meaning that it counts from `1`, rather than
  from `0` like polymake. For most properties we have taken care of the
  translation but be aware that it might pop up at some point and generate
  confusion.

  For convenience, `Polymake.jl` provides `Polymake.to_one_based_indexing` and
  `Polymake.to_zero_based_indexing`.

- Polyhedra and polyhedral complexes in OSCAR are represented inhomogeneously,
  i.e. without the leading `1` for vertices or `0` for rays. Hence constructors
  take points, rays, and lineality generators separately.
- TODO: also talk about how to use it from OSCAR?

## Notes for Magma users

- TODO

## Notes for SageMath users

- TODO

Commit message:

DevDocs: How to access polymakes user_method's

docs/src/General/other.md, after:

# Notes for users of other computer algebra systems

## General differences

- TODO: ``2^{100}`` is evaluated to 0; write ``fmpz(2)^100`` to get
  a long

## Notes for GAP users

- TODO
- TODO: also talk about how to use it from OSCAR?

## Notes for Singular users

- TODO
- TODO: also talk about how to use it from OSCAR?

## Notes for Polymake users

- OSCAR (and Julia) is `1`-based, meaning that it counts from `1`, rather than
  from `0` like polymake. For most properties we have taken care of the
  translation but be aware that it might pop up at some point and generate
  confusion.

  For convenience, `Polymake.jl` provides `Polymake.to_one_based_indexing` and
  `Polymake.to_zero_based_indexing`.

- Polyhedra and polyhedral complexes in OSCAR are represented inhomogeneously,
  i.e. without the leading `1` for vertices or `0` for rays. Hence constructors
  take points, rays, and lineality generators separately.

- `user_method`s cannot be accessed via Julia's dot syntax, i.e. something like

  ```julia
  c = Polymake.polytope.cube(3)
  c.AMBIENT_DIM
  ```

  will not work. Instead `user_method`s are attached as Julia functions in
  their respective application. They are always written in lowercase. In the
  example the following works:

  ```julia
  c = Polymake.polytope.cube(3)
  Polymake.polytope.ambient_dim(c)
  ```


## Notes for Magma users

- TODO

## Notes for SageMath users

- TODO
