```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
CollapsedDocStrings = true
DocTestSetup = Oscar.doctestsetup()
```

# Origami

This package provides methods for calculations with certain translation surfaces called origamis. An origami
(also known as square-tiled surface) is a finite covering of a torus which is ramified at most over one point.
It can be described in the following way from two permutations $\sigma_x, \sigma_y \in S_d$. We take $d$
squares $Q_1, \dots, Q_d$ and glue the lower side of $Q_i$ to the upper side of $Q_{\sigma_y(i)}$ and the
right side of $Q_i$ to the left side of $Q_{\sigma_x(i)}$ . We require origamis to be connected and thus the
group generated by $\sigma_x$ and $\sigma_y$ acts transitively on $\{1, \dots, d\}$. In this package we
identify an origami with a pair of permutations, which acts transitively on $\{1, \dots, d\}$ up to
simultaneous conjugation. This corresponds to renumbering the squares. By choosing a certain numbering in a
canonical way one can achieve a canonical representative.

We are especially interested in the so-called Veech group of an origami. This is a finite-index subgroup of
$\text{SL}_2(\mathbb{Z})$ which carries a lot of information about the geometric and dynamic properties of the
underlying translation surface. For further information about origamis and translation surfaces in general,
see e.g. [[Zmi11]](#Zmi11), [[Sch05]](#Sch05), [[HL06]](#HL06), [[Ran17]](#Ran17) and [[Zor06]](#Zor06).

## Status

This part of OSCAR is in an experimental state; please see [Adding new projects to experimental](@ref) for what
this means. See also the dedicated `README.md` for details.

## Contact

Please direct questions about this part of OSCAR to the following people:
* [Sebastian Engelhardt](mailto:seen00001@stud.uni-saarland.de)

You can ask questions in the [OSCAR Slack](https://www.oscar-system.org/community/#slack).

Alternatively, you can [raise an issue on GitHub](https://www.oscar-system.org/community/#how-to-report-issues).

## References

<a id="HL06">[HL06]</a> Pascal Hubert and Samuel Lelièvre. Prime arithmetic Teichmüller discs in $\mathcal{H}(2)$. _Israel J. Math._, 2006.

<a id="Ran17">[Ran17]</a>  Anja Randecker. Skript zur Vortragsreihe Unendliche Translationsflächen, 2017.

<a id="Sch05">[Sch05]</a>  Gabriela Schmithüsen. _Veech Groups of Origamis_. PhD thesis, University of Karlsruhe, 2005.

<a id="Zmi11">[Zmi11]</a> David Zmiaikou. Origamis and permutation groups. PhD thesis, University Paris-Sud, 2011.

<a id="Zor06">[Zor06]</a>  Anton Zorich. Flat surfaces. In _Frontiers in number theory, physics, and geometry. I_. Springer, Berlin, 2006.
