docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/GroebnerBases/groebner_bases_integers.md, before:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
CollapsedDocStrings = true
DocTestSetup = Oscar.doctestsetup()
```

# Gröbner/Standard Bases Over $\mathbb Z$

In this section, we consider a polynomial ring
$\mathbb Z[x] = \mathbb Z[x_1, \dots, x_n]$ over the integers. As in the previous section
on Gröbner/standard bases over fields, let $>$ be a monomial ordering on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$.
With respect to this ordering, the localization $\mathbb Z[x]_>$ and, given a nonzero element
$f \in \mathbb Z[x]_>$, the notions *leading term*, *leading monomial*, *leading exponent*,
*leading coefficient*, and *tail*  of $f$ are defined as before.

!!! note
    Over $\mathbb Z$, the basic idea of multivariate polynomial division with remainder in OSCAR is as follows:
    If $ax^\alpha$ is the leading term of the intermediate dividend, $f_i$
    is *some* divisor whose leading monomial equals $x^\alpha$, say
    $\text{LT}(f_i) = bx^\alpha$, and $r$ is the remainder of $a$ on division by $b$ in
    $\mathbb Z$, then $ax^\alpha$ is replaced by $rx^\alpha$.

##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = polynomial_ring(ZZ, [:x, :y]);

julia> reduce(3*x, [2*x])
x

julia> reduce(6*x, [5*x, 2*x])
0
```

The notion of *leading ideals*  as formulated in [the previous section](@ref gb_fields) and the definitions of
standard bases (Gröbner bases) carry over: A *standard basis* for an ideal $I\subset K[x]_>$
with respect to $>$ is a finite subset $G$ of $I$ such that $\text{L}_>(G) = \text{L}_>(I)$ (a
standard basis with respect to a global monomial ordering is also called a *Gröbner basis*).

There is, however, a sublety: Over a field, the defining condition of a standard basis as stated
above is equivalent to saying that the $\text{LT}_>(g)$, $g\in G\setminus\{0\}$ generate
$\text{L}_>(I)$. Over $\mathbb Z$, the latter condition implies the former one, but
not vice versa. Consequently, over $\mathbb Z$, a finite subset $G$ of $I$ satisfying the
latter condition is called a *strong standard basis* for $I$ (with respect to $>$).

We refer to the  textbook [AL94](@cite) for more on this.

!!! note
    Over $\mathbb Z$, the standard bases returned by OSCAR are strong in the sense above.

##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x,y) = polynomial_ring(ZZ, [:x,:y])
(Multivariate polynomial ring in 2 variables over ZZ, ZZMPolyRingElem[x, y])

julia> I = ideal(R, [3*x^2*y+7*y, 4*x*y^2-5*x])
Ideal generated by
  3*x^2*y + 7*y
  4*x*y^2 - 5*x

julia> G = groebner_basis(I, ordering = lex(R))
Gröbner basis with elements
  1: 28*y^3 - 35*y
  2: 4*x*y^2 - 5*x
  3: 15*x^2 + 28*y^2
  4: 3*x^2*y + 7*y
  5: x^2*y^2 - 5*x^2 - 7*y^2
with respect to the ordering
  lex([x, y])
```

Commit message:

CommutativeAlgebra: added notes to `default_ordering` to Groebner bases sections

docs/src/CommutativeAlgebra/GroebnerBases/groebner_bases_integers.md, after:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
CollapsedDocStrings = true
DocTestSetup = Oscar.doctestsetup()
```

# Gröbner/Standard Bases Over $\mathbb Z$

In this section, we consider a polynomial ring
$\mathbb Z[x] = \mathbb Z[x_1, \dots, x_n]$ over the integers. As in the previous section
on Gröbner/standard bases over fields, let $>$ be a monomial ordering on $\text{Mon}_n(x)$.
With respect to this ordering, the localization $\mathbb Z[x]_>$ and, given a nonzero element
$f \in \mathbb Z[x]_>$, the notions *leading term*, *leading monomial*, *leading exponent*,
*leading coefficient*, and *tail*  of $f$ are defined as before.

!!! note
    See the previous section on "Monomial Orderings" for details on how to implement monomial
    orderings in OSCAR, with particular emphasis on default orderings in OSCAR.

!!! note
    Over $\mathbb Z$, the basic idea of multivariate polynomial division with remainder in OSCAR is as follows:
    If $ax^\alpha$ is the leading term of the intermediate dividend, $f_i$
    is *some* divisor whose leading monomial equals $x^\alpha$, say
    $\text{LT}(f_i) = bx^\alpha$, and $r$ is the remainder of $a$ on division by $b$ in
    $\mathbb Z$, then $ax^\alpha$ is replaced by $rx^\alpha$.

##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x, y) = polynomial_ring(ZZ, [:x, :y]);

julia> reduce(3*x, [2*x])
x

julia> reduce(6*x, [5*x, 2*x])
0
```

The notion of *leading ideals*  as formulated in [the previous section](@ref gb_fields) and the definitions of
standard bases (Gröbner bases) carry over: A *standard basis* for an ideal $I\subset K[x]_>$
with respect to $>$ is a finite subset $G$ of $I$ such that $\text{L}_>(G) = \text{L}_>(I)$ (a
standard basis with respect to a global monomial ordering is also called a *Gröbner basis*).

There is, however, a sublety: Over a field, the defining condition of a standard basis as stated
above is equivalent to saying that the $\text{LT}_>(g)$, $g\in G\setminus\{0\}$ generate
$\text{L}_>(I)$. Over $\mathbb Z$, the latter condition implies the former one, but
not vice versa. Consequently, over $\mathbb Z$, a finite subset $G$ of $I$ satisfying the
latter condition is called a *strong standard basis* for $I$ (with respect to $>$).

We refer to the  textbook [AL94](@cite) for more on this.

!!! note
    Over $\mathbb Z$, the standard bases returned by OSCAR are strong in the sense above.

##### Examples

```jldoctest
julia> R, (x,y) = polynomial_ring(ZZ, [:x,:y])
(Multivariate polynomial ring in 2 variables over ZZ, ZZMPolyRingElem[x, y])

julia> I = ideal(R, [3*x^2*y+7*y, 4*x*y^2-5*x])
Ideal generated by
  3*x^2*y + 7*y
  4*x*y^2 - 5*x

julia> G = groebner_basis(I, ordering = lex(R))
Gröbner basis with elements
  1: 28*y^3 - 35*y
  2: 4*x*y^2 - 5*x
  3: 15*x^2 + 28*y^2
  4: 3*x^2*y + 7*y
  5: x^2*y^2 - 5*x^2 - 7*y^2
with respect to the ordering
  lex([x, y])
```
