```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
CollapsedDocStrings = true
DocTestSetup = Oscar.doctestsetup()
```

# Introduction

A *variety* in this chapter is a smooth irreducible projective algebraic set over the complex numbers.
A *subvariety* of a variety $X$ is an irreducible algebraic subset of $X$. We will

- present OSCAR tools which support computations in the intersection theory of varieties, and
- give examples which illustrate how intersection theory is used to solve problems from enumerative geometry.

The first package for doing intersection theory on the computer was the `Maple` package `Schubert` written
by Sheldon Katz and Stein A. Strømme. The starting point for developing `Schubert` was the problem of enumerating
twisted cubic curves on a general quintic hypersurface in $\mathbb P^4$, see [ES02](@cite). We quote from that paper:

> One way to approach enumerative problems is to find a suitable complete parameter space for the objects that one wants to count, and express the locus of objects satisfying given conditions as a certain zero-cycle on the parameter space. For this method to yield an explicit numerical answer, one needs in particular to be able to evaluate the degree of a given zerodimensional cycle class. This is possible in principle whenever the numerical intersection ring (cycles modulo numerical equivalence) of the parameter space is known, say in terms of generators and relations.

## Numerical intersection rings

A cycle on a variety $X$ is a finite formal sum of subvarieties of $X$, with integer coefficients. That is, a *cycle* on $X$
is an element of the free abelian group generated by the subvarieties of $X$. We consider this group with its grading by
codimension, that is, we work with the graded group $\mathrm{Z}^\ast(X) = \bigoplus^{\dim(X)}_{c=0} \mathrm{Z}^c(X)$, where
$\mathrm{Z}^c(X)$ consists of the cycles of codimension $c$ on $X$.

A useful cycle theory is obtained by considering an *adequate equivalence relation*,
given on the cycle groups $\mathrm{Z}^\ast(X)$ of all varieties $X$ (see [Sam60](@cite), [Mur14](@cite)). Such a
relation $\sim$ is compatible with the group structure and grading on $\mathrm{Z}^\ast(X)$. It gives rise to a suitable concept
of *moving cycles* and, thus, to a well-defined intersection product on cycle classes which makes the quotient group
$\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^\ast(X) := \mathrm{Z}^\ast(X)/\sim$ into a graded ring (*intersection ring*). The construction of such rings is functorial
with respect to morphisms of varieties in the sense that, given a morphism $f:X \rightarrow Y$, there are associated
pushforward and pullback maps $f_{\ast}$ and $f^{\ast}$ for cycle classes (recall that we work with projective varieties).

More precisely, for each $d$, building the group $\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^d(X)$ of cycle classes of dimension $d$ gives rise to a covariant
functor from varieties to groups via $f_{\ast}$, while building $\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^\ast(X)$ gives rise to a contravariant functor from varieties
to rings via $f^{\ast}$. Moreover, we have the *projection formula*

$f_\ast(f^\ast(\beta)\cdot \alpha) = f_\ast(\alpha)\cdot \beta \;\text{ for all }\; \alpha\in\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^\ast(X), \beta\in\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^\ast(Y)$

(here, we extend $f_{\ast}$ by additivity to all cycle classes on $Y$).

Since we grade by codimension, the degree-0 part of an intersection ring consists of cycle classes of dimension
$\dim(X)$. Note that this part is isomorphic to $\mathbb Z$: It is generated by the class of $X$ in $\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^\ast(X)$,
the *fundamental class* of $X$ with respect to $\sim$ (recall that we assume that $X$ is irreducible).

On the other hand, the part of an intersection ring of degree $\dim(X)$ consists of classes of 0-cycles, that is, cycles of dimension zero.
We have a well-defined *degree homomorphism*, or *integral*,

$\deg =\int_X : \mathrm{C}_{\sim}^{\dim(X)}(X) \rightarrow \mathbb Z$

which sends the class of a point of $X$ to 1, and which extends to a homomorphism on all of $\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^\ast(X)$ :

$\int_X : \mathrm{C}_{\sim}^\ast(X)\rightarrow \mathbb Z, \quad \alpha = \sum _{c = 0}^{\dim(X)} \alpha_c\mapsto \int \alpha_{\dim(X)}.$

In particular, we have the intersection pairings

$\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^c(X)\times\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^{\dim(X)-c}(X)\rightarrow\mathrm{C}_{\sim}^{\dim(X)}(X) \overset{\deg}\longrightarrow \mathbb Z.$

The finest adequate equivalence relation is *rational equivalence* which is the most common relation to work with.
The resulting intersection ring of $X$ is usually denoted by $\mathrm{A}^\ast(X)$ and called
the *Chow ring* of $X$. Note that such rings are often difficult to handle. For example, while $\mathrm{A}^0(X)$ is isomorphic
to $\mathbb Z$ as pointed out above, it may happen that the group $\mathrm{A}^{\dim(X)}$ is not even finitely generated.
To be unaffected by such problems, we follow the authors of `Schubert` and work with *numerical equivalence*, the
coarsest adequate equivalence relation. That is, we only care about the intersection numbers with respect to classes
in complementary codimension. This is enough for handling most enumerative problems, with the additional benefit
that we often can compute the pushforward of a cycle class along a morphism $f$ of varieties when only the pullback
homomorphism $ f^\ast$ is known (see [Abstract variety maps](@ref)). We will write $\mathrm{N}^\ast(X)$ for the
numerical intersection ring. In our implementation of these rings, we actually work with rational
coefficients when forming cycles. That is, given $X$, we consider the ring

$\mathrm{N}^\ast(X)_{\mathbb Q} = \mathrm{N}^\ast(X) \otimes_{\mathbb Z} {\mathbb Q} = \bigoplus^{\dim(X)}_{c=0}\mathrm{N}^c(X)_{\mathbb Q}.$

Notions such as integral or intersection pairing extend to this situation.

!!! note
    In this chapter, we abuse our notation in that the name *Chow ring* always refers to a ring of type $\mathrm{N}^\ast(X)_{\mathbb Q}$.

The graded pieces $\mathrm{N}^c(X)_{\mathbb Q}$ are finite-dimensional $\mathbb Q$-vector spaces, their dimensions
$\beta_c(X) = \dim\mathrm{N}^c(X)_{\mathbb Q}$ are called the *Betti numbers* of $X$. Note, however, that they do not
necessarily agree with the topologically defined Betti numbers, because the numerical intersection ring can at most see the
algebraic part of the cohomology.

Since the intersection pairings

$\mathrm{N}^c(X)_{\mathbb Q}\times\mathrm{N}^{\dim(X)-c}(X)_{\mathbb Q}\rightarrow\mathrm{N}^{\dim(X)}(X)_{\mathbb Q} \overset{\deg}\longrightarrow \mathbb Q$

are non-degenerate by the very definition of numerical equivalence, we have $\beta_c(X) = \beta_{\dim(X)-c}(X)$ for each $c$.
In particular, $\mathrm{N}^0(X)_{\mathbb Q}$ and $\mathrm{N}^{\dim(X)}(X)_{\mathbb Q} $ are both 1-dimensional $\mathbb Q$-vector spaces,
generated by the fundamental class $[X]$ and the class of a point (the unique class that integrates to 1), respectively.

!!! warning
    In many cases, there is no algorithm for computing the entire Chow ring: We will only be able to obtain information on a
    certain subring generated by some tautological classes. We illustrate this in [Example: Cubic surfaces](@ref).

For some nice varieties, however, numerical equivalence coincides with rational equivalence. For such a variety $X$, the Chow ring
coincides with the rational cohomology ring and can be completely computed, so problems as above disappear.
A nice consequence is that the Betti numbers of $X$ introduced above are exactly the (even) Betti numbers
of $X$ considered as a compact complex manifold, so we have an equality `sum(betti_numbers(X)) == euler_number(X)`.
The class of such varieties $X$ includes projective spaces, Grassmannians, homogeneous spaces for affine algebraic
groups (for example, flag varieties), and in general any variety with an affine stratification. Moreover, products of two
varieties in the class, projective bundles and, more generally, flag bundles over varieties in the class, and blowups of
varieties in the class with centers in the class will remain in the class. As Eisenbud and Harris
[EH16](@cite) put it:

> This class represents a tiny fraction of all varieties,
> but a large fraction of the set of varieties on which we can
> effectively carry out intersection theory.

In OSCAR, internally, we use `set_attribute(X, :alg => true)` to declare that $X$ satisfies this property.
Accordingly, entering `get_attribute(X, :alg)` reveals whether `:alg` has been set to true or not.

## Abstract varieties

With respect to computations, again following `Schubert`, our approach is abstract in the
sense that we do not work with explicit varieties given by equations. Instead, we specify the
dimension of the variety together with its Chow ring and, possibly, further data. We refer to such
a collection of data as an *abstract variety*, and to results obtained from manipulating
the data as results which apply to all (smooth projective complex) varieties sharing the data.

Of particular interest is the tangent bundle of a variety (the Todd class of the
tangent bundle enters the Hirzebruch-Riemann-Roch formula). As with any other vector bundle,
the tangent bundle is represented as a collection of data referred to as an *abstract vector bundle*.
The main data here is the Chern character of the vector bundle.

In the same spirit, we introduce *abstract variety maps*. Their key data is the pullback
homomorphism between the respective Chow rings.

Some comments on this set-up are in order:

Let $X$ be a variety. Write $\mathrm{K}^0(X)$ for the *Grothendieck group of vector bundles on $X$*. That is,
$\mathrm{K}^0(X)$ is the free abelian group generated by the isomorphism classes of vector bundles on $X$,
modulo the relations of type $[E]=[E^{\prime}]-[E^{\prime \prime}]$,
where $E$, $E^\prime$, and $E^{\prime \prime}$ fit into an exact sequence
$0\rightarrow E^\prime \rightarrow E \rightarrow E^{\prime \prime} \rightarrow 0$.
The tensor product turns $\mathrm{K}^0(X)$ into a ring, the *Grothendieck ring of vector bundles on $X$*.
By Grothendieck--Riemann--Roch, the Chern character defines a ring isomorphism

$\operatorname{ch}:\mathrm{K}^0(X)_{\mathbb Q}\overset{\simeq}\longrightarrow \mathrm{A}^*(X) _{\mathbb Q}.$

Since rational equivalence is (much) finer than numerical equivalence, we obtain a ring epimorphism

$\operatorname{ch}: \mathrm{K}^0(X)_{\mathbb Q}\overset{\simeq}\longrightarrow\mathrm{A}^*(X) _{\mathbb Q}\twoheadrightarrow\mathrm{N}^*(X)_{\mathbb Q}.$

Write $\mathrm{K}_0(X)$ for the *Grothendieck group of coherent sheaves on $X$*.
Then, since $X$ is supposed to be smooth, the natural map $\mathrm{K}^0(X)\rightarrow\mathrm{K}_0(X)$ is an isomorphism
(every coherent sheaf on $X$ has a finite resolution by locally free sheaves). We may, thus, speak of coherent sheaves
given by *virtual vector bundles*, that is, by elements of $\mathrm{K}^0(X)_{\mathbb Q}$. Hence, we can use the concept of abstract
vector bundles also to infer information on coherent sheaves, with algebraic operations such as `-` or `*` (tensor product)
being virtual.

!!! note
    A first version of what we present here was written by Jieao Song as a separate `julia` package based on OSCAR.
    This package was "heavily inspired by the Macaulay2 package `Schubert2` and the `sage` library `Chow`.
    Some functionalities from [the `sage` library] `Schubert3` are also implemented."
    The authors of `Schubert2` are Daniel R. Grayson, Michael E. Stillman, Stein A. Strømme, David Eisenbud, and Charley Crissman,
    while `Chow` is due to Manfred Lehn and Christoph Sorger. `Schubert3` as well as the `Singular` library `schubert.lib` is due
    to Dang Tuan Hiep. All this work, including ours, is inspired by the afore mentioned `Maple` package `Schubert` written
    by Sheldon Katz and Stein A. Strømme.

## References

General textbooks offering details on theory and algorithms include

- [EH16](@cite),
- [Ful98](@cite).

Generators and relations for the Chow ring of a flag bundle are described in [Gro58](@cite).
For the pushforward of cycle classes from a flag bundle to its base variety see [GSS22](@cite).

## Contact

Please direct questions about this part of OSCAR to the following people:

- [Pieter Belmans](https://pbelmans.ncag.info/),
- [Wolfram Decker](https://math.rptu.de/en/wgs/agag/people/head/decker),
- [Tommy Hofmann](https://www.thofma.com/).

You can ask questions in the [OSCAR Slack](https://www.oscar-system.org/community/#slack).

Alternatively, you can [raise an issue on GitHub](https://www.oscar-system.org/community/#how-to-report-issues).
