docs/src/AlgebraicGeometry/ToricVarieties/CohomologyClasses.md, before:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
CollapsedDocStrings = true
DocTestSetup = Oscar.doctestsetup()
```


# Cohomology Classes


## Constructors

### General constructors

```@docs
cohomology_class(v::NormalToricVarietyType, p::MPolyQuoRingElem)
cohomology_class(d::ToricDivisor)
cohomology_class(c::ToricDivisorClass)
cohomology_class(l::ToricLineBundle)
```

### Addition, subtraction and scalar multiplication

Cohomology classes can be added and subtracted via the usual `+` and `-`
operators. Moreover, multiplication by scalars from the left is supported
for scalars which are integers or of type `ZZRingElem` or `QQFieldElem`.

### Wedge product

The wedge product of cohomology classes is implemented via `*`, 
using internally the multiplication of the corresponding polynomial 
(equivalence classes) in the Cox ring.

A cohomology class can be wedged `n`-times with itself via `^n`,
where `n` can be an integer or of type `ZZRingElem`.


## Properties

One can check if a cohomology class is trivial via `is_trivial`.

Equality of cohomology classes can be tested via `==`.


## Attributes

```@docs
toric_variety(c::CohomologyClass)
coefficients(c::CohomologyClass)
exponents(c::CohomologyClass)
polynomial(c::CohomologyClass)
polynomial(ring::MPolyQuoRing, c::CohomologyClass)
```


## Methods

```@docs
integrate(c::CohomologyClass; check::Bool = true)
```


## Special attributes of toric varieties

```@docs
cohomology_ring(v::NormalToricVarietyType; check::Bool = true)
volume_form(v::NormalToricVariety)
intersection_form(v::NormalToricVariety)
chern_class(v::NormalToricVariety, k::Int; check::Bool = true)
chern_classes(v::NormalToricVariety; check::Bool = true)
basis_of_h4(v::NormalToricVariety; check::Bool = true)
```

Commit message:

ToricVarieties: Speedup
Improve speed for printing lists of toric divisors and construction of cohomology classes

Co-authored-by: Lars Kastner <lkastner@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/src/AlgebraicGeometry/ToricVarieties/CohomologyClasses.md, after:

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
CollapsedDocStrings = true
DocTestSetup = Oscar.doctestsetup()
```


# Cohomology Classes


## Constructors

### General constructors

Cohomology classes are elements of the cohomology ring, which is a quotient ring (for normal toric varieties that
are simplicial and complete). All of the following methods accept an optional argument `quick` (default: `false`).  
When set to `true`, computations are performed in the base ring of the cohomology ring to improve performance.  
This is especially useful when constructing cohomology classes on large toric varieties, where operations
in the quotient ring - such as Gröbner basis computations - can be computationally expensive.

**Caveat:** When `quick = true`, the method will not detect whether the resulting cohomology class is trivial.
Use this option when faster computations are preferred and triviality checks are not required.

```@docs
cohomology_class(v::NormalToricVarietyType, p::MPolyQuoRingElem)
cohomology_class(d::ToricDivisor)
cohomology_class(c::ToricDivisorClass)
cohomology_class(l::ToricLineBundle)
```

### Addition, subtraction and scalar multiplication

Cohomology classes can be added and subtracted via the usual `+` and `-`
operators. Moreover, multiplication by scalars from the left is supported
for scalars which are integers or of type `ZZRingElem` or `QQFieldElem`.

### Wedge product

The wedge product of cohomology classes is implemented via `*`, 
using internally the multiplication of the corresponding polynomial 
(equivalence classes) in the Cox ring.

A cohomology class can be wedged `n`-times with itself via `^n`,
where `n` can be an integer or of type `ZZRingElem`.


## Properties

One can check if a cohomology class is trivial via `is_trivial`.

Equality of cohomology classes can be tested via `==`.


## Attributes

```@docs
toric_variety(c::CohomologyClass)
coefficients(c::CohomologyClass)
exponents(c::CohomologyClass)
polynomial(c::CohomologyClass)
polynomial(ring::MPolyQuoRing, c::CohomologyClass)
```


## Methods

```@docs
integrate(c::CohomologyClass; check::Bool = true)
```


## Special attributes of toric varieties

```@docs
cohomology_ring(v::NormalToricVarietyType; check::Bool = true)
volume_form(v::NormalToricVariety)
intersection_form(v::NormalToricVariety)
chern_class(v::NormalToricVariety, k::Int; check::Bool = true)
chern_classes(v::NormalToricVariety; check::Bool = true)
basis_of_h4(v::NormalToricVariety; check::Bool = true)
```
