docs/src/DeveloperDocumentation/design_decisions.md, before:

# Design Decisions
This document covers the ideas and design decisions behind Oscar, as well as
some pitfalls to avoid.


## Oscar - what is the idea
Oscar is the innovative, next generation Computer Algebra System. The ultimate
goal for Oscar is to compete with (and ideally beat) Magma and Sage in our
areas of expertise. Oscar should be accessible, even for the youngest student
who is familiar with these objects. Oscar should follow general mathematical
conventions to support the widest possible range of applications.

## Oscar and Julia

Oscar is written in Julia, but is not Julia, nor can it be. 
Some examples to illustrate what that means:
Julia's matrices are (C) arrays (of arbitrary dimension), parameterized by
the type of the entries (apart from banded, sparse, ... special matrices).
In the numerical world, the type mostly defines the representation of an object
- double and variations
- complex
- BigFloat
- Int
- BigInt

In algebra, this is either not true or terribly inefficient (or impossible)
Take $\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z}$ integers modulo $n$, and matrices over it
   
Then either:
-  $n$ is part of the type -> every function is recompiled for every $n$ -
  which kills all modular (Chinese remainder theorem  (CRT) based)
  algorithms
-  $n$ is not part of the type, then it need to be elsewhere, i.e. in the
  parent, every element, additional arguments, ...

Furthermore, if $n$ is BigInt (fmpz), so no bittype, then it cannot be part of
the type.

For non-empty matrices, this does not matter as the entries have enough
information, but for empty matrices this information needs to be collected
elsewhere.

To summarize, normal Julia infrastructure does not suffice for our purposes in
many places, so please use ours. If functions are missing then
- add them
- or tell us

## Mathematical Context in Oscar

When studying mathematics, the exact meaning of a term or object is determined
by context. In Oscar, this does not work. The meaning has to be part of either

 - the object
 - or the question posed about the object
 
As an example: in classical number theory there is the convention that many
definitions that are trivial for fields are silently applied to the ring of
integers. One speaks of the unit group of the number field, meaning the unit
group of the ring of integers. Let alpha be an element explicitly constructed
as an element of the number field, not of the ring of integers, then

- `is_unit` will just test if it is non-zero (unit in a field as a special type
  of ring)
- `is_unit_in_ring_of_integers` would supply the context for the other
  interpretation.

In Oscar, this context is mostly supplied by the type of the object and
possibly the parent, e.g. the containing ring/ field/ group.

## What Do We Have:

We have a large codebase for infrastructure in place, comprising at least
 - matrices
 - polynomials (univariate and multivariate)
 - power series
 - number fields
 - (abelian) groups
 - polytopes, cones, linear programs
 - polyhedral fans
 - ... and MUCH more
As well as specialized stuff
 - polymake
 - Singular
 - Gap

So: Please use it. It is safe to assume all can be improved, however, if we try
to perfect every single line of code again and again, we we won't get anywhere;
there is a balance to be found.
For preference: interoperability is much more important than speed, readability
is much more important than speed. Having said that: of course, sometimes pure
speed matters, but not nearly as often as people think.

The infrastructure is incomplete, e.g. we do not have
 - varieties, (we've started with curves recently)
 - combinatorial manifolds
 - surfaces
 - tropical polytopes
 - ....

If you need them, e.g. you want a library/ package for (elliptic) curves, then
step ONE should be to define a curve. It does not need to be perfect, support
all of Hartshorn immediately, but it should not contradict him either. It is OK
for a function to say: sorry, not (yet) implemented. Then if I need it, I can
add and re-use the infrastructure.

The key idea is to pick a single textbook and follow the conventions in there.
This way we get a consistent interface.

## What Is Missing?

At this point we have, mathematically speaking, almost nothing. This has to
change, quickly.  We work in a team of ~ 10(?) people.
We lack infrastructure as everyone will notice immediately.
As a result, the classical

    I work for 6 month in a separate repo on a branch and then will dazzle you
    with perfect code and cool examples

approach is not going to work for now. It will result in everyone fixing the same
infrastructure problems over and over again. Please consider to work, e.g. in
a file/directory  in `Oscar/examples` and push on a regular basis, even, or in
particular, incomplete code. Break it down into small pull requests.
 - it is in examples, so no-one is accidentally going to automatically use it
 - it is in the main repo, so everyone can see it and try to use it, producing feedback
 - infrastructure, in Oscar at least, can be added in the same repo, immediately and thus
   is available to others, immediately. (feedback, ...)
 - [Talk to us!](https://oscar.computeralgebra.de/community/) - as early as
   possible. There is a chance that what you're trying to do is already there -
   in a different package maybe, not linked in, ....



## Practical Development

### Creating New Basic Types
Whenever you feel the urge to define a new basic type, say a new multivariate
ring, please consider the ramifications:
 - can you do matrices?
 - modules?
 - ideals?
 - graded stuff?
 - "complete" arithmetic?
 - interaction with other types? (map to residue rings, apply automorphisms, ...)
 - in fact, everything the other MPoly type can?

If yes: still reconsider, but go ahead.

If no: at least use "our" types to interface your function, better still, use
our type and complain about lack of functionality/ speed/ interface (or provide
patches).

This applies to all foundations! They are all incomplete, and they can all
be improved BUT if everyone does their own foundations, we cannot work
together.

As a reminder, please stick to "global definitions" and not "experts" versions
of definitions. Reasoning such as: "but all experts know and expect this - it
is always done this way" will make your function impossible to be used by
outsiders. Feel free to add the other "expert" definition layer if you need.

### Including Outside Packages
Unless really really necessary, don't include outside packages
as dependencies. Every outside package means that the testing, releases, ...
are more complicated. You're at the whim of others. If you need a highly
non-trivial 10000 line package, well, there is no help and we need to see how
to arrange it. In particular, for the near future, it will be your job to
ensure that this outside package still works with us. If you need a trivial 10
line function from a 10000 line package, just don't.

Commit message:

DevDocs: People should also show us their prototypes

docs/src/DeveloperDocumentation/design_decisions.md, after:

# Design Decisions
This document covers the ideas and design decisions behind Oscar, as well as
some pitfalls to avoid.


## Oscar - what is the idea
Oscar is the innovative, next generation Computer Algebra System. The ultimate
goal for Oscar is to compete with (and ideally beat) Magma and Sage in our
areas of expertise. Oscar should be accessible, even for the youngest student
who is familiar with these objects. Oscar should follow general mathematical
conventions to support the widest possible range of applications.

The key idea for development of OSCAR is to pick a single textbook for every
area and follow the conventions in there.  This way we get a consistent
interface.

## Oscar and Julia

Oscar is written in Julia, but is not Julia, nor can it be. 
Some examples to illustrate what that means:
Julia's matrices are (C) arrays (of arbitrary dimension), parameterized by
the type of the entries (apart from banded, sparse, ... special matrices).
In the numerical world, the type mostly defines the representation of an object
- double and variations
- complex
- BigFloat
- Int
- BigInt

In algebra, this is either not true or terribly inefficient (or impossible)
Take $\mathbb{Z}/n\mathbb{Z}$ integers modulo $n$, and matrices over it
   
Then either:
-  $n$ is part of the type -> every function is recompiled for every $n$ -
  which kills all modular (Chinese remainder theorem  (CRT) based)
  algorithms
-  $n$ is not part of the type, then it need to be elsewhere, i.e. in the
  parent, every element, additional arguments, ...

Furthermore, if $n$ is BigInt (fmpz), so no bittype, then it cannot be part of
the type.

For non-empty matrices, this does not matter as the entries have enough
information, but for empty matrices this information needs to be collected
elsewhere.

To summarize, normal Julia infrastructure does not suffice for our purposes in
many places, so please use ours. If functions are missing then
- add them
- or tell us

## Mathematical Context in Oscar

When studying mathematics, the exact meaning of a term or object is determined
by context. In Oscar, this does not work. The meaning has to be part of either

 - the object
 - or the question posed about the object
 
As an example: in classical number theory there is the convention that many
definitions that are trivial for fields are silently applied to the ring of
integers. One speaks of the unit group of the number field, meaning the unit
group of the ring of integers. Let alpha be an element explicitly constructed
as an element of the number field, not of the ring of integers, then

- `is_unit` will just test if it is non-zero (unit in a field as a special type
  of ring)
- `is_unit_in_ring_of_integers` would supply the context for the other
  interpretation.

In Oscar, this context is mostly supplied by the type of the object and
possibly the parent, e.g. the containing ring/ field/ group.

## What Do We Have:

We have a large codebase for infrastructure in place, comprising at least
 - matrices
 - polynomials (univariate and multivariate)
 - power series
 - number fields
 - (abelian) groups
 - polytopes, cones, linear programs
 - polyhedral fans
 - ... and MUCH more
For specialized functionality we can access the entirety of the following
software frameworks on a lower level:
 - polymake
 - Singular
 - Gap

So: Please use it. It is safe to assume all can be improved, however, if we try
to perfect every single line of code again and again, we we won't get anywhere;
there is a balance to be found.
For preference: interoperability is much more important than speed, readability
is much more important than speed. Having said that: of course, sometimes pure
speed matters, but not nearly as often as people think.


## What Is Missing?


The infrastructure is incomplete, e.g. we do not have
 - varieties, (we've started with curves recently)
 - combinatorial manifolds
 - surfaces
 - tropical polytopes
 - ....


At this point we have, mathematically speaking, almost nothing. This has to
change, quickly.  We work in a team of ~ 10(?) people.
We lack infrastructure as everyone will notice immediately.
As a result, the classical

    I work for 6 month in a separate repo on a branch and then will dazzle you
    with perfect code and cool examples

approach is not going to work for now. It will result in everyone fixing the same
infrastructure problems over and over again. Please consider to work, e.g. in
a file/directory  in `Oscar/examples` and push on a regular basis, even, or in
particular, incomplete code. Break it down into small pull requests.
 - it is in examples, so no-one is accidentally going to automatically use it
 - it is in the main repo, so everyone can see it and try to use it, producing feedback
 - infrastructure, in Oscar at least, can be added in the same repo, immediately and thus
   is available to others, immediately. (feedback, ...)
 - [Talk to us!](https://oscar.computeralgebra.de/community/) - as early as
   possible. There is a chance that what you're trying to do is already there -
   in a different package maybe, not linked in, ....



## Practical Development

### Creating New Basic Types
Whenever you feel the urge to define a new basic type, say a new multivariate
ring, please consider the ramifications:
 - can you do matrices?
 - modules?
 - ideals?
 - graded stuff?
 - "complete" arithmetic?
 - interaction with other types? (map to residue rings, apply automorphisms, ...)
 - in fact, everything the other MPoly type can?

If yes: still reconsider, but go ahead.

If no: at least use "our" types to interface your function, better still, use
our type and complain about lack of functionality/ speed/ interface (or provide
patches).

This applies to all foundations! They are all incomplete, and they can all
be improved BUT if everyone does their own foundations, we cannot work
together.

As a reminder, please stick to "global definitions" and not "experts" versions
of definitions. Reasoning such as: "but all experts know and expect this - it
is always done this way" will make your function impossible to be used by
outsiders. Feel free to add the other "expert" definition layer if you need.

### Including Outside Packages
Unless really really necessary, don't include outside packages
as dependencies. Every outside package means that the testing, releases, ...
are more complicated. You're at the whim of others. If you need a highly
non-trivial 10000 line package, well, there is no help and we need to see how
to arrange it. In particular, for the near future, it will be your job to
ensure that this outside package still works with us. If you need a trivial 10
line function from a 10000 line package, just don't.
