```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
CollapsedDocStrings = true
DocTestSetup = Oscar.doctestsetup()
```
# The algebraic phylogenetics database

This collection contains phylogenetic models on phylogenetic trees and networks with up to 5 leaves.
It accompanies the database hosted at [Algebraic Phylogenetics](https://algebraicphylogenetics.org). 
See also [Small Phylogenetic Trees](https://www.coloradocollege.edu/aapps/ldg/small-trees/small-trees_0.html) for a list of contributors.

## The Database Collections
After installing OSCAR, you can access the database as described [here](https://docs.oscar-system.org/dev/Experimental/OscarDB/introduction/#get_db).

The data is organized into two collections based on their coordinate systems:
* `AlgebraicStatistics.SmallPhylogeneticModels`: Contains models described using standard probability coordinates. This allows for models without a Fourier parameter description (such as the general Markov model) to be included. Models retrieved from this collection are of type `SmallPhylogeneticModel`.
* `AlgebraicStatistics.SmallGroupBasedModels`: Contains group-based models described natively using Fourier coordinates. This takes advantage of the fact that the parametrization simplifies drastically into a monomial map, making algebraic computations significantly more efficient. Models retrieved from this collection are of type `SmallGroupBasedModel`.

Models that admit a representation in both coordinate systems are present in both collections and share the exact same identifier (`model_encoding`).

You can query the database using the following parameters:
 * identifier of the database entry `data.model_encoding`
 * type of the model `data.model_type`
 * number of leaves `data.n_leaves`
 * level of the phylogenetic network `data.level`
 * number of cycles in the phylogenetic network `data.n_cycles`
 * dimension `data.dimension`
 * degree `data.degree`
 * number of coordinates `data.n_coordinates`
 * dimension of the singular locus `data.dimension_singular_locus`
 * degree of the singular locus `data.degree_singular_locus`
 * Euclidean distance degree `data.euclidean_distance_degree`
 * Maximum likelihood degree `data.maximum_likelihood_degree` (only for `SmallPhylogeneticModels`)

### Model Identifiers

Each model is stored with a unique identifier (`model_encoding`) which encodes the underlying graph's fundamental topology and the applied evolutionary model. Let $G$ be the underlying graph (either a tree or a network). The identifier is a string of the form `L-C-maxC-minC-HL-CE-idx-M`, where:
* `L`: Number of leaves in $G$.
* `C`: Number of undirected cycles in $G$.
* `maxC` and `minC`: Maximum and minimum cycle lengths in $G$, respectively.
* `HL`: Total number of leaves descending from all hybrid nodes.
* `CE`: Number of interior cut edges (non-terminal edges whose removal disconnects the graph).
* `idx`: A disambiguating integer index used when multiple graphs share the exact same topological invariants.
* `M`: The evolutionary model, taking values such as `CFN`, `JC`, `K2P`, `K3P`, or `GM`.

### Example
```julia-repl
julia> using Oscar;

julia> db = Oscar.OscarDB.get_db();

julia> sgbms_collection = db["AlgebraicStatistics.SmallGroupBasedModels"]
Oscar.OscarDB.Collection: AlgebraicStatistics.SmallGroupBasedModels

julia> query = Oscar.OscarDB.find(sgbms_collection, Dict("data.model_type" => "CFN", "data.level" => 0, "data.n_leaves" => 3));

julia> SGBM = first(query)
Small group-based phylogenetic model 3-0-0-0-0-0-0-CFN
```

Once you have queried a model from the database, it will be returned as either a `SmallGroupBasedModel` or a `SmallPhylogeneticModel`. You can inspect its properties using the provided getter functions.

```julia-repl
julia> model_type(SGBM)
"CFN"

julia> n_leaves(SGBM)
3

julia> dim(SGBM)
4

julia> n_coordinates(SGBM)
4

julia> vanishing_ideal(SGBM)
Ideal generated by
  0
```

## Attributes of small models

The following functions are provided to extract information from the models stored in the database:

```@docs
group_based_phylogenetic_model(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
phylogenetic_model(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
model_type(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
graph(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
n_leaves(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
level(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
n_cycles(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
dim(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
degree(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
n_coordinates(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
dimension_singular_locus(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
degree_singular_locus(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
euclidean_distance_degree(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
maximum_likelihood_degree(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
parametrization(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
equivalent_classes(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
vanishing_ideal(sm::SmallPhylogeneticModel)
```

## Contact

Please direct questions about this part of OSCAR to the following people:
* [Antony Della Vecchia](https://antonydellavecchia.github.io/)
* [Marina Garrote-López](https://sites.google.com/view/marinagarrotelopez)

You can ask questions in the [OSCAR Slack](https://www.oscar-system.org/community/#slack).

Alternatively, you can [raise an issue on github](https://www.oscar-system.org/community/#how-to-report-issues).
