docs/src/TropicalGeometry/linear_space.md, before:

# Tropical linear spaces

## Introduction
A tropical linear space is a balanced polyhedral complex supported on a finite intersection of linear tropical hypersurfaces with all multiplicities one.  It is dual to a matroid subdivision of a hypersimplex, and may arise as tropicalizations of linear ideals. For more on tropical linear spaces, see
- Chapter 4.4 in [MS15](@cite)
- Chapter 10 in [Jos21](@cite)

#### Note:
- Objects of type `TropicalLinearSpace` need to be embedded, abstract tropical linear spaces are currently not supported.
- The type `TropicalLinearSpace` can be thought of as subtype of `TropicalVariety` in the sense that it should have all properties and features of the latter.


## Constructors
In addition to converting from `TropicalVariety`, objects of type `TropicalLinearSpace` can be constructed from:
1. Pluecker vectors over a tropical semiring: uses a low-level implementation in `polymake`
2. Pluecker vectors over a field and a tropical semiring map: computes coordinatewise valuation and uses constructor (1.)
3. matrices over a tropical semiring: computes tropical minors and uses constructor (1.)
4. matrices over a field and a tropical semiring map.
    - if matrix over `QQ` and tropical semiring map is trivial, uses an implementation of Rincon's algorithm [Rin13](@cite) in `polymake`
    - for general input, computes minors and uses constructor (2.)
```@docs
tropical_linear_space
```

## Properties
In addition to the properties inherited from `TropicalVariety`, objects of type `TropicalLinearSpace` have the following exclusive properties:
```@docs
pluecker_indices(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
tropical_pluecker_vector(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
algebraic_pluecker_vector(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
tropical_semiring_map(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
tropical_matrix(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
algebraic_matrix(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
algebraic_ideal(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
```

Commit message:

TropicalGeometry: tropical linear spaces from graphs (#4445)
* TropicalGeometry: tropical_linear_space from graphs

* Update src/TropicalGeometry/linear_space.jl

Co-authored-by: Benjamin Lorenz <benlorenz@users.noreply.github.com>

* TropicalGeometry: changed docstring to indicate optional TropicalSemiringMap

* TropicalGeometry: added default tropical_semiring_map for consistency

This is technically not necessary, as passing `nothing` to
tropical_linear_space inside the function is valid, but this makes it
more consistent and maybe easier to read

* TropicalGeometry: changed linear space docu

Added a note that tropical linear spaces in OSCAR (currently) live in
euclidean space and not in the tropical torus

* TropicalGeometry: streamlined default TropicalSemiringMap declarations

* TropicalGeometry: improved tropical_matrix

* TropicalGeometry: updated tropical_linear_space test

Constructing tropical linear spaces over the rationals go through an
optimised polymake function and thus they lack certain
attributes (because computing them would be extra work)

* TropicalGeometry: fixed variable naming

* TropicalGeometry: compute algebraic matrix from algebraic ideal if not cached

* TropicalGeometry: fixed typo in docs

* TropicalGeometry: added note on Bergman fans

---------

Co-authored-by: Benjamin Lorenz <benlorenz@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/src/TropicalGeometry/linear_space.md, after:

# Tropical linear spaces

## Introduction
A tropical linear space is a balanced polyhedral complex supported on a finite intersection of linear tropical hypersurfaces with all multiplicities one.  It is dual to a matroid subdivision of a hypersimplex, and may arise as tropicalizations of linear ideals. For more on tropical linear spaces, see
- Chapter 4.4 in [MS15](@cite)
- Chapter 10 in [Jos21](@cite)

#### Note:
- Tropical linear spaces in OSCAR are polyhedral complexes in euclidean space that are invariant under translation by the ones vector.  Unlike in [MS15](@cite) and [Jos21](@cite), they are not polyhedral complexes in the tropical torus.
- Tropical linear spaces constructed with respect to a trivial valuation are also known as Bergman fans.  Bergman fans can have several possible polyhedral structures, though their support always remains the same.  In OSCAR, which structure is being used depends on how it was constructed.
- Objects of type `TropicalLinearSpace` need to be embedded, abstract tropical linear spaces are currently not supported.
- The type `TropicalLinearSpace` can be thought of as subtype of `TropicalVariety` in the sense that it should have all properties and features of the latter.


## Constructors
In addition to converting from `TropicalVariety`, objects of type `TropicalLinearSpace` can be constructed from:
1. Pluecker vectors over a tropical semiring: uses a low-level implementation in `polymake`
2. Pluecker vectors over a field and a tropical semiring map: computes coordinatewise valuation and uses constructor (1.)
3. matrices over a tropical semiring: computes tropical minors and uses constructor (1.)
4. matrices over a field and a tropical semiring map
    - if matrix over `QQ` and tropical semiring map is trivial, uses an implementation of Rincon's algorithm [Rin13](@cite) in `polymake`
    - for general input, computes minors and uses constructor (2.)
5. graphs
```@docs
tropical_linear_space
```

## Properties
In addition to the properties inherited from `TropicalVariety`, objects of type `TropicalLinearSpace` have the following exclusive properties:
```@docs
pluecker_indices(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
tropical_pluecker_vector(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
algebraic_pluecker_vector(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
tropical_semiring_map(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
tropical_matrix(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
algebraic_matrix(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
algebraic_ideal(TropL::TropicalLinearSpace)
```
